a common human skin tumour is caused by activating mutations in beta-catenin . 
wnt signalling orchestrates a number of developmental programs . 
in response to this stimulus , cytoplasmic beta-catenin -lrb- encoded by ctnnb1 -rrb- is stabilized , enabling downstream transcriptional activation by members of the lef / tcf family . 
one of the target genes for beta-catenin / tcf encodes c-myc , explaining why constitutive activation of the wnt pathway can lead to cancer , particularly in the colon . 
most colon cancers arise from mutations in the gene encoding adenomatous polyposis coli -lrb- apc -rrb- , a protein required for ubiquitin-mediated degradation of beta-catenin , but a small percentage of colon and some other cancers harbour beta-catenin-stabilizing mutations . 
recently , we discovered that transgenic mice expressing an activated beta-catenin are predisposed to developing skin tumours resembling pilomatricomas . 
given that the skin of these adult mice also exhibits signs of de novo hair-follicle morphogenesis , we wondered whether human pilomatricomas might originate from hair matrix cells and whether they might possess beta-catenin-stabilizing mutations . 
here , we explore the cell origin and aetiology of this common human skin tumour . 
we found nuclear lef-1 in the dividing tumour cells , providing biochemical evidence that pilomatricomas are derived from hair matrix cells . 
at least _num2 % of these tumours possess mutations affecting the amino-terminal segment , normally involved in phosphorylation-dependent , ubiquitin-mediated degradation of the protein . 
this percentage of ctnnb1 mutations is greater than in all other human tumours examined thus far , and directly implicates beta-catenin / lef misregulation as the major cause of hair matrix cell tumorigenesis in humans . . 
hfe mutations analysis in _num3 hemochromatosis probands : evidence for s65c implication in mild form of hemochromatosis . 
hereditary hemochromatosis -lrb- hh -rrb- is a common autosomal recessive genetic disorder of iron metabolism . 
the hfe candidate gene encoding an hla class i-like protein involved in hh was identified in _num4 . 
two missense mutations have been described c282y , accounting for _num2 % to _num2 % of hh chromosomes , and h63d , which is associated with a milder form of the disease representing _num2 % to _num2 % of non-c282y hh chromosomes . 
we report here on the analysis of c282y , h63d , and the 193a -- > t substitution leading to the s65c missense substitution in a large series of probands and controls . 
the results confirm that the c282y substitution was the main mutation involved in hemochromatosis , accounting for _num2 % of carrier chromosomes , whereas the h63d substitution represented _num2 % of the hh chromosomes that did not carry the c282y mutation . 
in addition , our screening showed that the s65c substitution was significantly enriched in probands with at least one chromosome without an assigned mutation . 
this substitution accounted for _num1 . 
_num1 % of hh chromosomes that were neither c282y nor h63d . 
this enrichment of s65c among hh chromosomes suggests that the s65c substitution is associated with the mild form of hemochromatosis . 
germline brca1 alterations in a population-based series of ovarian cancer cases . 
the objective of this study was to provide more accurate frequency estimates of breast cancer susceptibility gene _num1 -lrb- brca1 -rrb- germline alterations in the ovarian cancer population . 
to achieve this , we determined the prevalence of brca1 alterations in a population-based series of consecutive ovarian cancer cases . 
this is the first population-based ovarian cancer study reporting brca1 alterations derived from a comprehensive screen of the entire coding region . 
one hundred and seven ovarian cancer cases were analyzed for brca1 alterations using the rnase mismatch cleavage assay followed by direct sequencing . 
two truncating mutations , 962del4 and 3600del11 , were identified . 
both patients had a family history of breast or ovarian cancer . 
several novel as well as previously reported uncharacterized variants were also identified , some of which were associated with a family history of cancer . 
the frequency distribution of common polymorphisms was determined in the _num2 caucasian cancer cases in this series and _num2 sister controls using allele-specific amplification . 
the rare form of the q356r polymorphism was significantly -lrb- p = _num1 . 
_num2 -rrb- associated with a family history of ovarian cancer , suggesting that this polymorphism may influence ovarian cancer risk . 
in summary , our data suggest a role for some uncharacterized variants and rare forms of polymorphisms in determining ovarian cancer risk , and highlight the necessity to screen for missense alterations as well as truncating mutations in this population . 
identification of apc2 , a homologue of the adenomatous polyposis coli tumour suppressor . 
the adenomatous polyposis coli -lrb- apc -rrb- tumour suppressor protein controls the wnt signalling pathway by forming a complex with glycogen synthase kinase 3beta -lrb- gsk-3beta -rrb- , axin / conductin and betacatenin . 
complex formation induces the rapid degradation of betacatenin . 
in colon carcinoma cells , loss of apc leads to the accumulation of betacatenin in the nucleus , where it binds to and activates the tcf-4 transcription factor -lrb- reviewed in -lsb- _num1 -rsb- -lsb- _num1 -rsb- -rrb- . 
here , we report the identification and genomic structure of apc homologues . 
mammalian apc2 , which closely resembles apc in overall domain structure , was functionally analyzed and shown to contain two samp domains , both of which are required for binding to conductin . 
like apc , apc2 regulates the formation of active betacatenin-tcf complexes , as demonstrated using transient transcriptional activation assays in apc - / - colon carcinoma cells . 
human apc2 maps to chromosome 19p13 . 
_num1 . 
apc and apc2 may therefore have comparable functions in development and cancer . 
familial deficiency of the seventh component of complement associated with recurrent bacteremic infections due to neisseria . 
the serum of a 29-year old woman with a recent episode of disseminated gonococcal infection and a history of meningococcal meningitis and arthritis as a child was found to lack serum hemolytic complement activity . 
the seventh component of complement -lrb- c7 -rrb- was not detected by functional or immunochemical assays , whereas other components were normal by hemolytic and immunochemical assessment . 
her fresh serum lacked complement-mediated bactericidal activity against neisseria gonorrhoeae , but the addition of fresh normal serum or purified c7 restored bactericidal activity as well as hemolytic activity . 
the absence of functional c7 activity could not be accounted for on the basis of an inhibitor . 
opsonization and generation of chemotactic activity functioned normally . 
complete absence of c7 was also found in one sibling who had the clinical syndrome of meningococcal meningitis and arthritis as a child and in this siblings clinically well eight-year-old son . 
hla histocompatibility typing of the family members did not demonstrate evidence for genetic linkage of c7 deficiency with the major histocompatibility loci . 
this report represents the first cases of c7 deficiency associated with infectious complications and suggests that bactericidal activity may be important in host defense against bacteremic neisseria infections . 
gch1 mutation in a patient with adult-onset oromandibular dystonia . 
the authors report a mutation in exon _num1 of gch1 in a patient with adult-onset oromandibular dystonia and no obvious family history of dystonia . 
the patient responded positively to treatment with l-dopa . 
these findings demonstrate that gch1 mutations must be considered even in patients with dystonic symptoms not typical of dopa-responsive dystonia . 
the hereditary hemochromatosis protein , hfe , specifically regulates transferrin-mediated iron uptake in hela cells . 
hfe is the protein product of the gene mutated in the autosomal recessive disease hereditary hemochromatosis -lrb- feder , j. n. , gnirke , a. , thomas , w. , tsuchihashi , z. , ruddy , d. a. , basava , a. , dormishian , f. , domingo , r. j. , ellis , m. c. , fullan , a. , hinton , l. m. , jones , n. l. , kimmel , b. e. , kronmal , g. s. , lauer , p. , lee , v. k. , loeb , d. b. , mapa , f. a. , mcclelland , e. , meyer , n. c. , mintier , g. a. , moeller , n. , moore , t. , morikang , e. , prasss , c. e . 
, quintana , l. , starnes , s. m . 
, schatzman , r. c . 
, brunke , k. j . 
, drayna , d. t. , risch , n. j . 
, bacon , b. r . 
, and wolff , r. r . 
-lrb- _num4 -rrb- nat . 
genet . 
_num2 , 399-408 -rrb- . 
at the cell surface , hfe complexes with transferrin receptor -lrb- tfr -rrb- , increasing the dissociation constant of transferrin -lrb- tf -rrb- for its receptor 10-fold -lrb- gross , c. n . 
, irrinki , a. , feder , j. n . 
, and enns , c . 
a . 
-lrb- _num4 -rrb- j. biol . 
chem . 
_num3 , 22068-22074 ; feder , j. n. , penny , d. m. , irrinki , a. , lee , v. k. , lebron , j. a. , watson , n. , tsuchihashi , z. , sigal , e. , bjorkman , p. j. , and schatzman , r. c. -lrb- _num4 -rrb- proc . 
natl . 
acad . 
sci . 
u s a _num2 , 1472-1477 -rrb- . 
hfe does not remain at the cell surface , but traffics with tfr to tf-positive internal compartments -lrb- gross et al. , _num4 -rrb- . 
using a hela cell line in which the expression of hfe is controlled by tetracycline , we show that the expression of hfe reduces 55fe uptake from tf by _num2 % but does not affect the endocytic or exocytic rates of tfr cycling . 
therefore , hfe appears to reduce cellular acquisition of iron from tf within endocytic compartments . 
hfe specifically reduces iron uptake from tf , as non-tf-mediated iron uptake from fe-nitrilotriacetic acid is not altered . 
these results explain the decreased ferritin levels seen in our hela cell system and demonstrate the specific control of hfe over the tf-mediated pathway of iron uptake . 
these results also have implications for the understanding of cellular iron homeostasis in organs such as the liver , pancreas , heart , and spleen that are iron loaded in hereditary hemochromatotic individuals lacking functional hfe . 
mutation and haplotype studies of familial mediterranean fever reveal new ancestral relationships and evidence for a high carrier frequency with reduced penetrance in the ashkenazi jewish population . 
familial mediterranean fever -lrb- fmf -rrb- is a recessive disorder characterized by episodes of fever with serositis or synovitis . 
the fmf gene -lrb- mefv -rrb- was cloned recently , and four missense mutations were identified . 
here we present data from non-ashkenazi jewish and arab patients in whom we had not originally found mutations and from a new , more ethnically diverse panel . 
among _num2 symptomatic mutation-positive individuals , _num2 mutations accounted for _num2 % of carrier chromosomes . 
of the two mutations that are novel , one alters the same residue -lrb- _num3 -rrb- as a previously known mutation , and the other -lrb- p369s -rrb- is located in exon _num1 . 
consistent with another recent report , the e148q mutation was observed in patients of several ethnicities and on multiple microsatellite haplotypes , but haplotype data indicate an ancestral relationships between non-jewish italian and ashkenazi jewish patients with fmf and other affected populations . 
among approximately _num3 anonymous ashkenazi jewish dna samples , the mefv carrier frequency was _num2 % , with e148q the most common mutation . 
several lines of evidence indicate reduced penetrance among ashkenazi jews , especially for e148q , p369s , and k695r . 
nevertheless , e148q helps account for recessive inheritance in an ashkenazi family previously reported as an unusual case of dominantly inherited fmf . 
the presence of three frequent mefv mutations in multiple mediterranean populations strongly suggests a heterozygote advantage in this geographic region . 
autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome with defective fas : genotype influences penetrance . 
autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome -lrb- alps -rrb- is a disorder of lymphocyte homeostasis and immunological tolerance . 
most patients have a heterozygous mutation in the apt1 gene , which encodes fas -lrb- cd95 , apo-1 -rrb- , mediator of an apoptotic pathway crucial to lymphocyte homeostasis . 
of _num2 unique apt1 mutations in unrelated alps probands , _num2 -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- occurred in exons 7-9 , which encode the intracellular portion of fas . 
in vitro , activated lymphocytes from all _num2 patients showed apoptotic defects when exposed to an anti-fas agonist monoclonal antibody . 
similar defects were found in a fas-negative cell line transfected with cdnas bearing each of the mutations . 
in cotransfection experiments , fas constructs with either intra - or extracellular mutations caused dominant inhibition of apoptosis mediated by wild-type fas . 
two missense fas variants , not restricted to patients with alps , were identified . 
variant a -lrb- -1 -rrb- t at the fas signal-sequence cleavage site , which mediates apoptosis less well than wild-type fas and is partially inhibitory , was present in _num2 % of african american alleles . 
among the alps associated fas mutants , dominant inhibition of apoptosis was much more pronounced in mutants affecting the intracellular , versus extracellular , portion of the fas receptor . 
mutations causing disruption of the intracellular fas death domain also showed a higher penetrance of alps phenotype features in mutation-bearing relatives . 
significant alps related morbidity occurred in _num2 % of relatives with intracellular mutations , versus _num1 % of relatives with extracellular mutations . 
thus , the location of mutations within apt1 strongly influences the development and the severity of alps . 
mutational analysis and genotype-phenotype correlation of _num2 unrelated japanese patients with x-linked adrenoleukodystrophy . 
background x-linked adrenoleukodystrophy -lrb- ald -rrb- is an inherited disease characterized by progressive neurologic dysfunction , occasionally associated with adrenal insufficiency . 
the classic form of ald usually has onset in childhood -lrb- childhood cerebral ald -rrb- , with rapid neurologic deterioration leading to a vegetative state . 
adult-onset cerebral ald also presents with rapidly progressive neurologic dysfunction . 
milder phenotypes such as adrenomyeloneuropathy and addison disease only also have been recognized . 
despite discovery of the causative gene , a molecular basis for the diverse clinical presentations remains to be elucidated . 
objectives to conduct mutational analyses in _num2 japanese patients with ald from _num2 unrelated families , to obtain knowledge of the spectrum of mutations in this gene , and to study genotype-phenotype correlations in japanese patients . 
methods the _num2 patients comprised _num2 patients with childhood cerebral ald , _num2 patients with adult-onset cerebral ald , and _num1 patients with adrenomyeloneuropathy . 
we conducted detailed mutational analyses of _num2 unrelated japanese patients with ald by genomic southern blot analysis and direct nucleotide sequence analysis of reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction products derived from total rna that was extracted from cultured skin fibroblasts , lymphoblastoid cells , or peripheral blood leukocytes . 
results three patients with adult-onset cerebral ald were identified as having large genomic rearrangements . 
the remaining _num2 patients were identified as having _num2 independent mutations , including _num2 novel mutations resulting in small nucleotide alterations in the ald gene . 
eighteen -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- of _num2 mutations were missense mutations . 
most missense mutations involved amino acids conserved in homologous gene products , including pmp70 , maldrp , and pxa1p . 
the _ds dinucleotide deletion at position 1081-1082 , which has been reported previously to be the most common mutation in white patients -lrb- _num2 % -17 % -rrb- , was also identified as the most common mutation in japanese patients -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- . 
all phenotypes were associated with mutations resulting in protein truncation or subtle amino acid changes . 
there were no differences in phenotypic expressions between missense mutations involving conserved amino acids and those involving nonconserved amino acids . 
conclusions there are no obvious correlations between the phenotypes of patients with ald and their genotypes , suggesting that other genetic or environmental factors modify the phenotypic expressions of ald . . 
absence of the seventh component of complement in a patient with chronic meningococcemia presenting as vasculitis . 
a previously healthy 40-year-old man presenting with fever , arthritis , and cutaneous vasculitis was found to have chronic meningococcemia . 
evaluation of his complement system showed an absence of functional and antigenic c7 , compatible with a complete deficiency of the seventh component of complement . 
study of the patients family spanning four generations showed heterozygous deficiency of c7 in five members . 
chronic neisserial infection can be associated with c7 deficiency and must be distinguished from other causes of cutaneous vasculitis . . 
genotype and phenotype in patients with dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase deficiency . 
dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase -lrb- dpd -rrb- deficiency is an autosomal recessive disease characterised by thymine-uraciluria in homozygous deficient patients and has been associated with a variable clinical phenotype . 
in order to understand the genetic and phenotypic basis for dpd deficiency , we have reviewed _num2 families presenting _num2 patients with complete deficiency of dpd . 
in this group of patients , _num1 different mutations have been identified , including _num1 deletions -lsb- 295-298deltcat , 1897delc -rsb- , _num1 splice-site mutation -lsb- ivs14 + 1g > a -rrb- -rsb- and _num1 missense mutations -lrb- 85t > c , 703c > t , 2658g > a , 2983g > t -rrb- . 
analysis of the prevalence of the various mutations among dpd patients has shown that the g -- > a point mutation in the invariant splice donor site is by far the most common -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- , whereas the other six mutations are less frequently observed . 
a large phenotypic variability has been observed , with convulsive disorders , motor retardation and mental retardation being the most abundant manifestations . 
a clear correlation between the genotype and phenotype has not been established . 
an altered beta-alanine , uracil and thymine homeostasis might underlie the various clinical abnormalities encountered in patients with dpd deficiency . 
molecular characterization of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase -lrb- g6pd -rrb- deficiency by natural and amplification created restriction sites : five mutations account for most g6pd deficiency cases in taiwan . 
we have developed a rapid and simple method to diagnose the molecular defects of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase -lrb- g6pd -rrb- deficiency in chinese in taiwan . 
this method involves the selective amplification of a dna fragment from human g6pd gene with specific oligonucleotide primers followed by digestion with restriction enzymes that recognize artificially created or naturally occurring restriction sites . 
ninety-four chinese males with g6pd deficiency were studied . 
the results show that _num2 % -lrb- _num2 of _num2 -rrb- were g to t mutation at nucleotide -lrb- nt -rrb- _num4 , _num2 . 
_num1 % -lrb- _num2 of _num2 -rrb- were g to a mutation at nt _num4 , _num1 . 
_num1 % -lrb- _num1 of _num2 -rrb- were a to g mutation at nt _num3 , _num1 . 
_num1 % -lrb- _num1 of _num2 -rrb- were a to g mutation at nt _num2 , _num1 . 
_num1 % -lrb- _num1 of _num2 -rrb- were c to t mutation at nt _num4 , _num1 . 
_num1 % -lrb- _num1 of _num2 -rrb- was g to t mutation at nt _num3 , and _num1 . 
_num1 % -lrb- _num1 of _num2 -rrb- was g to a mutation at nt _num3 . 
these results show that the former five mutations account for more than _num2 % of g6pd deficiency cases in taiwan . 
aside from showing that g to t change at nt _num4 is the most common mutation , our research indicates that nt _num3 mutation is a frequent mutation among chinese in taiwan . 
we compared g6pd activity among different mutations , without discovering significant differences between them . 
homozygous hypobetalipoproteinemia : a disease distinct from abetalipoproproteinemia at the molecular level . 
apob dna , rna , and protein from two patients with homozygous hypobetalipoproteinemia -lrb- hbl -rrb- were evaluated and compared with normal individuals . 
southern blot analysis with _num2 different cdna probes revealed a normal gene without major insertions , deletions , or rearrangements . 
northern and slot blot analyses of total liver mrna from hbl patients documented a normal size apob mrna that was present in greatly reduced quantities . 
apob protein was detected within hbl hepatocytes utilizing immunohistochemical techniques ; however , it was markedly reduced in quantity when compared with control samples . 
no apob was detectable in the plasma of hbl individuals with an elisa assay . 
these data are most consistent with a mutation in the coding portion of the apob gene in hbl patients , leading to an abnormal apob protein and apob mrna instability . 
these results are distinct from those previously noted in abetalipoproteinemia , which was characterized by an elevated level of hepatic apob mrna and accumulation of intracellular hepatic apob protein . . 
a population-based study of the clinical expression of the hemochromatosis gene . 
background and methods hereditary hemochromatosis is associated with homozygosity for the c282y mutation in the hemochromatosis -lrb- hfe -rrb- gene on chromosome _num1 , elevated serum transferrin saturation , and excess iron deposits throughout the body . 
to assess the prevalence and clinical expression of the hfe gene , we conducted a population-based study in busselton , australia . 
in _num4 , we obtained blood samples for the determination of serum transferrin saturation and ferritin levels and the presence or absence of the c282y mutation and the h63d mutation -lrb- which may contribute to increased hepatic iron levels -rrb- in _num4 unrelated white adults . 
we evaluated all subjects who had persistently elevated transferrin-saturation values -lrb- _num2 percent or higher -rrb- or were homozygous for the c282y mutation . 
we recommended liver biopsy for subjects with serum ferritin levels of _num3 ng per milliliter or higher . 
the subjects were followed for up to four years . 
results sixteen of the subjects -lrb- _num1 . 
_num1 percent -rrb- were homozygous for the c282y mutation , and _num3 -lrb- _num2 . 
_num1 percent -rrb- were heterozygous . 
the serum transferrin saturation was _num2 percent or higher in _num2 of the _num2 who were homozygous ; in _num1 subject it was _num2 percent . 
four of the homozygous subjects had previously been given a diagnosis of hemochromatosis , and _num2 had not . 
seven of these _num2 patients had elevated serum ferritin levels in _num4 ; _num1 of the _num1 had further increases in _num4 , and _num1 had a decrease , although the value remained elevated . 
the serum ferritin levels in the four other homozygous patients remained in the normal range . 
eleven of the _num2 homozygous subjects underwent liver biopsy ; _num1 had hepatic fibrosis , and _num1 , who had a history of excessive alcohol consumption , had cirrhosis and mild microvesicular steatosis . 
eight of the _num2 homozygous subjects had clinical findings that were consistent with the presence of hereditary hemochromatosis , such as hepatomegaly , skin pigmentation , and arthritis . 
conclusions in a population of white adults of northern european ancestry , _num1 . 
_num1 percent were homozygous for the c282y mutation in the hfe gene . 
however , only half of those who were homozygous had clinical features of hemochromatosis , and one quarter had serum ferritin levels that remained normal over a four-year period . 
overexpression of dm20 messenger rna in two brothers with pelizaeus-merzbacher disease . 
pelizaeus-merzbacher disease is a rare , sex-linked recessive , dysmyelinating disease of the central nervous system that has been associated with mutations in the myelin proteolipid protein -lrb- plp -rrb- gene . 
only _num2 % of patients studied with pelizaeus-merzbacher disease have exonic mutations in this gene , the underlying cause of the disease in the remaining patients is unknown . 
the plp gene encodes two major alternatively spliced transcripts called plp and dm20 . 
plp messenger rna is specifically expressed in central nervous system tissue , whereas dm20 messenger rna is found in central nervous system , cardiac , and other tissues . 
we studied cultured skin fibroblasts from _num1 brothers with pelizaeus-merzbacher disease who exhibited no detectable exonic mutation of the plp gene . 
examination of rna from these cells showed that the level of dm20 messenger rna is elevated sixfold relative to male control skin fibroblasts . 
an unrelated female carrier , also with no detectable exonic mutation , showed a threefold increase in dm20 messenger rna in cultured skin fibroblasts . 
our findings suggest that in some patients , pelizaeus-merzbacher disease is caused by overexpression of plp gene transcripts , and that in these families a _num2 % increase of dm20 messenger rna in females , relative to the increase in affected males , can identify a female carrier . . 
homozygosity for a novel dtdst mutation in a child with a ` broad bone-platyspondylic ' variant of diastrophic dysplasia . 
atypical or variant forms of well-known chondrodysplasias may pose diagnostic problems . 
we report on a girl with clinical features suggesting diastrophic dysplasia but with unusual radiographic features including severe platyspondyly , wide metaphyses , and fibular overgrowth , which are partially reminiscent of metatropic dysplasia . 
the diagnosis was clarified by molecular analysis of the dtdst gene , which revealed homozygosity for a previously undescribed mutation leading to a q454p substitution in the 10th transmembrane domain of the dtdst sulfate transporter . 
molecular analysis may be of particular value in such atypical cases . . 
carrier detection and prenatal diagnosis of pelizaeus-merzbacher disease using a combination of anonymous dna polymorphisms and the proteolipid protein -lrb- plp -rrb- gene cdna . 
we report carrier identification and a prenatal diagnosis using dna polymorphisms in _num1 families with x-linked pelizaeus-merzbacher disease -lrb- pmd -rrb- . 
in both families , the proteolipid protein -lrb- plp -rrb- gene in the single affected male could be traced back to his unaffected maternal grandfather . 
therefore , each family contains a new mutation . 
in the case of the prenatal diagnosis , the fetus was shown by cytogenetic analysis to be a female , who we predict will be a noncarrier of pmd based on her genotype with the plp intragenic polymorphism . . 
gardner syndrome in a boy with interstitial deletion of the long arm of chromosome _num1 . 
we described a 15-year-old boy with gardner syndrome -lrb- gs -rrb- , mental retardation , and craniofacial abnormalities . 
high-resolution banding analysis showed an interstitial deletion of the long arm of chromosome _num1 -lrb- _an . 
_num1 -- _an _num1 -- _an . 
_num1 -rrb- . 
the breakpoints in the present case and in _num1 previously reported 5q - patients with adenomatous polyposis coli suggest that the gene responsible for gs / or familial polyposis coli -lrb- fpc -rrb- is in the 5q22 region , a result consistent with the findings of linkage studies type i human complement c2 deficiency . 
a 28-base pair gene deletion causes skipping of exon _num1 during rna splicing . 
two variants of a genetic deficiency of complement protein c2 -lrb- c2d -rrb- have been previously identified . 
no c2 protein translation is detected in type i deficiency , while type ii deficiency is characterized by a selective block in c2 secretion . 
type i c2 deficiency was described in a family in which the c2 null allele -lrb- c2q0 -rrb- is associated with the major histocompatibility haplotype / complotype hla-a25 , _an , c2q0 , bfs , c4a4 , c4b2 , drw2 ; this extended haplotype occurs in over _num2 % of c2-deficient individuals -lrb- common complotype / haplotype -rrb- . 
to determine the molecular basis of type i c2 deficiency , the c2 gene and cdna were characterized from a homozygous type i c2-deficient individual with the common associated haplotype / complotype . 
we found a 28-base pair deletion in the type i c2q0 gene , beginning _num1 base pairs upstream of the 3-end of exon _num1 , that generates a c2 transcript with a complete deletion of exon _num1 -lrb- _num3 base pair -rrb- and a premature termination codon . 
in studies of eight kindred , the 28-base pair deletion was observed in all c2q0 alleles associated with the common type i deficient complotype / haplotype ; this deletion was not present in normal c2 nor in type ii c2-deficient genes . 
these data demonstrate that _num1 -rrb- type i human complement c2 deficiency is caused by a 28-base pair genomic deletion that causes skipping of exon _num1 during rna splicing , resulting in generation of a premature termination codon , _num1 -rrb- the 28-base pair deletion in the type i c2q0 gene is strongly associated with the hla haplotype / complotype _an , _an , c2q0 , bfs , c4a4 , c4b2 , drw2 , suggesting that all c2-deficient individuals with this haplotype / complotype will harbor the 28-base pair c2 gene deletion , and _num1 -rrb- type ii c2 deficiency is caused by a different , as yet uncharacterized , molecular genetic defect . . 
-lrb- over -rrb- correction of fmr1 deficiency with yac transgenics : behavioral and physical features . 
fragile x syndrome is a common cause of mental retardation involving loss of expression of the fmr1 gene . 
the role of fmr1 remains undetermined but the protein appears to be involved in rna metabolism . 
fmr1 knockout mice exhibit a phenotype with some similarities to humans , such as macroorchidism and behavioral abnormalities . 
as a step toward understanding the function of fmr1 and the determination of the potential for therapeutic approaches to fragile x syndrome , yeast artificial chromosome -lrb- yac -rrb- transgenic mice were generated in order to determine whether the fmr1 knockout mouse phenotype could be rescued . 
several transgenic lines were generated that carried the entire fmr1 locus with extensive amounts of flanking sequence . 
we observed that the yac transgene supported production of the human protein -lrb- fmrp -rrb- which was present at levels _num2 to _num2 times that of endogenous protein and was expressed in a cell - and tissue-specific manner . 
macro-orchidism was absent in knockout mice carrying the yac transgene indicating functional rescue by the human protein . 
given the complex behavioral phenotype in fragile x patients and the mild phenotype previously reported for the fmr1 knockout mouse , we performed a more thorough evaluation of the fmr1 knockout phenotype using additional behavioral assays that had not previously been reported for this animal model . 
the mouse displayed reduced anxiety related responses with increased exploratory behavior . 
fmr1 yac transgenic mice overexpressing the human protein did produce opposing behavioral responses and additional abnormal behaviors were also observed . 
these findings have significant implications for gene therapy for fragile x syndrome since overexpression of the gene may harbor its own phenotype . . 
fabry disease : identification of novel alpha-galactosidase a mutations and molecular carrier detection by use of fluorescent chemical cleavage of mismatches . 
fabry disease -lrb- fd -rrb- -lrb- angiokeratoma corporis diffusum -rrb- is an x-linked inborn error of glycosphingolipid metabolism caused by defects in the lysosomal alpha-galactosidase a gene -lrb- gla -rrb- . 
the enzymatic defect leads to the systemic accumulation of neutral glycosphingolipids with terminal alpha-galactosyl moieties . 
clinically , affected hemizygous males have angiokeratoma , severe acroparesthesia , renal failure , and vasculopathy of the heart and brain . 
while demonstration of alpha-galactosidase deficiency in leukocytes is diagnostic in affected males , enzymatic detection of female carriers is often inconclusive , due to random x-chromosomal inactivation , underlining the need of molecular investigations for accurate genetic counseling . 
by use of chemical cleavage of mismatches adapted to fluorescence-based detection systems , we have characterized the mutations underlying alpha-gal a deficiency in _num2 individuals from six unrelated families with fd . 
the mutational spectrum included five missense mutations -lrb- c202w , c223g , n224d , r301q , and q327k -rrb- and one splice-site mutation -lsb- ivs3 g -lrb- -1 -rrb- -- > c -rsb- . 
studies at the mrna level showed that the latter led to altered pre-mrna splicing with consequent alteration of the mrna translational reading frame and generation of a premature termination codon of translation . 
by use of this strategy , carrier status was accurately assessed in all seven at-risk females tested , whereas enzymatic dosages failed to diagnose or exclude heterozygosity . . 
evidence for linkage of bipolar disorder to chromosome _num2 with a parent-of-origin effect . 
a susceptibility gene on chromosome _num2 and a parent-of-origin effect have been suggested for bipolar affective disorder -lrb- bpad -rrb- . 
we have studied _num2 nuclear families selected for apparent unilineal transmission of the bpad phenotype , by using _num2 polymorphic markers spanning chromosome _num2 . 
evidence for linkage was tested with affected-sib-pair and lod score methods under two definitions of the affected phenotype . 
the affected-sibpair analyses indicated excess allele sharing for markers on 18p within the region reported previously . 
the greatest sharing was at d18s37 _num2 % in bipolar and recurrent unipolar -lrb- rup -rrb- sib pairs -lrb- p = . 
_num4 -rrb- . 
in addition , excess sharing of the paternally , but not maternally , transmitted alleles was observed at three markers on 18q at d18s41 , _num2 bipolar and rup sib pairs were concordant for paternally transmitted alleles , and _num2 pairs were discordant -lrb- p = _num4 -rrb- . 
the evidence for linkage to loci on both 18p and 18q was strongest in the _num2 paternal pedigrees , i. e e. , those in which the father or one of the fathers sibs is affected . 
in these pedigrees , the greatest allele sharing -lrb- _num2 % ; p = . 
_num5 -rrb- and the highest lod score -lrb- _num1 . 
_num2 ; phi = _num1 . 
_num1 -rrb- were observed at d18s41 . 
our results provide further support for linkage of bpad to chromosome _num2 and the first molecular evidence for a parent-of-origin effect operating in this disorder . 
the number of loci involved , and their precise location , require further study brca1 mutations in a population-based sample of young women with breast cancer . 
background . 
inherited mutations in the brca1 gene are associated with a high risk of breast and ovarian cancer in some families . 
however , little is known about the contribution of brca1 mutations to breast cancer in the general population . 
we analyzed dna samples from women enrolled in a population-based study of early-onset breast cancer to assess the spectrum and frequency of germ-line brca1 mutations in young women with breast cancer . 
methods . 
we studied _num2 women in whom breast cancer was diagnosed before the age of _num2 , and who were not selected on the basis of family history . 
genomic dna was studied for brca1 mutations by analysis involving single-strand conformation polymorphisms and with allele-specific assays . 
alterations were defined by dna sequencing . 
results . 
germ-line brca1 mutations were identified in _num1 of the _num2 women . 
four additional rare sequence variants of unknown functional importance were also identified . 
two of the mutations and three of the rare sequence variants were found among the _num2 women who reported no family history of breast or ovarian cancer . 
none of the mutations and only one of the rare variants was identified in a reference population of _num2 unrelated subjects . 
conclusions . 
alterations in brca1 were identified in approximately _num2 percent of this cohort of young women with breast cancer . 
the risk of harboring a mutation was not limited to women with family histories of breast or ovarian cancer . 
these results represent a minimal estimate of the frequency of brca1 mutations in this population . 
comprehensive methods of identifying brca1 mutations and understanding their importance will be needed before testing of women in the general population can be undertaken . . 
retinoschisin , the x-linked retinoschisis protein , is a secreted photoreceptor protein , and is expressed and released by weri-rb1 cells . 
x-linked retinoschisis is characterized by microcystic-like changes of the macular region and schisis within the inner retinal layers , leading to visual deterioration in males . 
many missense and protein-truncating mutations of the causative gene rs1 have now been identified and are thought to be inactivating . 
rs1 encodes a _num3 amino acid protein , retinoschisin , which contains a discoidin domain but is of unknown function . 
we have generated a polyclonal antibody against a peptide from a unique region within retinoschisin , which detects a protein of approximately _num2 kda in retinal samples reduced with dithiothreitol , but multimers sized > _num2 kda under non-reducing conditions . 
a screen of human tissues with this antibody reveals retinoschisin to be retina specific and the antibody detects a protein of similar size in bovine and murine retinae . 
we investigated the expression pattern in the retina of both rs1 mrna -lrb- using in situ hybridization with riboprobes -rrb- and retinoschisin -lrb- using immunohistochemistry -rrb- . 
the antisense riboprobe detected rs1 mrna only in the photoreceptor layer but the protein product of the gene was present both in the photoreceptors and within the inner portions of the retina . 
furthermore , differentiated retinoblastoma cells -lrb- weri-rb1 cells -rrb- were found to express rs1 mrna and to release retinoschisin . 
these results suggest that retinoschisin is released by photo-receptors and has functions within the inner retinal layers . 
thus , x-linked retinoschisis is caused by abnormalities in a putative secreted photoreceptor protein and is the first example of a secreted photo-receptor protein associated with a retinal dystrophy . . 
aberrant splicing of the chm gene is a significant cause of choroideremia . 
choroideremia -lrb- chm -rrb- is an x-linked progressive degeneration of the choroid and retina . 
_num2 % of unrelated male patients carry deletions of the partially cloned chm gene . 
in finland , there are more than _num3 living chm patients belonging to eight apparently unrelated pedigrees . 
molecular deletions involving the chm gene have been detected in three families . 
we have screened the remaining five families for point mutations . 
in one large family a single nucleotide -lrb- t -rrb- insertion into the donor splice site of exon c leads to two aberrantly spliced mrnas both producing a premature stop codon . 
the mutation can be assayed easily by amplification and digestion with msel . 
our findings provide additional evidence for the pathogenetic role of chm mutations and provide a diagnostic tool for one fifth of the worlds known chm patients . . 
x-linked adrenoleukodystrophy -lrb- ald -rrb- : a novel mutation of the ald gene in _num1 members of a family presenting with _num1 different phenotypes . 
fragments of the adrenoleukodystrophy -lrb- ald -rrb- cdna from a patient with adolescent ald were amplified by polymerase chain reaction and subcloned . 
bidirectional sequencing of the entire coding ald gene disclosed a cytosine to guanine transversion at nucleotide _num4 in exon five , resulting in substitution of proline _num3 by arginine . 
five of nine siblings of the patient , comprising two cerebral ald , one adrenomyeloneuropathy , one addison only as well as the symptomatic mother -lrb- all accumulating very long chain fatty acids -rrb- carried this mutation , which was not found in the unaffected persons , in five unrelated ald patients , and in twenty controls . 
we propose that this missense mutation generated the disease per se as well as the metabolic defect ; the different phenotypes , however , must have originated by means of additional pathogenetic factors . . 
statistical analysis of the two stage mutation model in von hippel-lindau disease , and in sporadic cerebellar haemangioblastoma and renal cell carcinoma . 
analysis of the age incidence curves for unilateral and bilateral retinoblastoma led knudson to propose that hereditary tumours may arise by a single event and sporadic tumours by a two stage mutation process . 
it has been suggested recently that sporadic renal cell carcinoma may arise from a two stage mutation process . 
we analysed the age incidence curves for symptomatic renal cell carcinoma -lrb- n = _num2 -rrb- and cerebellar haemangioblastoma -lrb- n = _num2 -rrb- in _num3 patients with von hippel-lindau -lrb- vhl -rrb- disease , and compared them to _num3 patients with sporadic renal cell carcinoma and _num2 patients with sporadic cerebellar haemangioblastoma . 
the age incidence curves for renal cell carcinoma and cerebellar haemangioblastoma in vhl disease were compatible with a single mutation model , whereas the age incidence curves for sporadic renal cell carcinoma and cerebellar haemangioblastoma suggested a two stage mutation process . 
these data are compatible with the vhl gene functioning as a recessive tumour suppressor gene . 
sporadic cerebellar haemangioblastoma and some renal cell carcinoma may arise from somatic mutations inactivating both alleles at the vhl locus . . 
characterization of a germline mosaicism in families with lowe syndrome , and identification of seven novel mutations in the ocrl1 gene . 
the oculocerebrorenal syndrome of lowe -lrb- ocrl -rrb- is an x-linked disorder characterized by major abnormalities of eyes , nervous system , and kidneys . 
mutations in the ocrl1 gene have been associated with the disease . 
ocrl1 encodes a phosphatidylinositol _num1 , 5-biphosphate -lrb- ptdins -lsb- _num1 , _num1 -rsb- p2 -rrb- 5-phosphatase . 
we have examined the ocrl1 gene in eight unrelated patients with ocrl and have found seven new mutations and one recurrent in-frame deletion . 
among the new mutations , two nonsense mutations -lrb- r317x and e558x -rrb- and three other frameshift mutations caused premature termination of the protein . 
a missense mutation , r483g , was located in the highly conserved ptdins -lrb- _num1 , _num1 -rrb- p2 5-phosphatase domain . 
finally , one frameshift mutation , 2799delc , modifies the c-terminal part of ocrl1 , with an extension of six amino acids . 
altogether , _num2 % of missense mutations are located in exon _num2 , and _num2 % of all mutations cluster in exons 11-15 . 
we also identified two new microsatellite markers for the ocrl1 locus , and we detected a germline mosaicism in one family . 
this observation has direct implications for genetic counseling of lowe syndrome families . . 
aminoglycoside antibiotics restore dystrophin function to skeletal muscles of mdx mice . 
duchenne muscular dystrophy -lrb- dmd -rrb- is caused by mutations in the dystrophin gene , leading to the absence of the dystrophin protein in striated muscle . 
a significant number of these mutations are premature stop codons . 
on the basis of the observation that aminoglycoside treatment can suppress stop codons in cultured cells , we tested the effect of gentamicin on cultured muscle cells from the mdx mouse - an animal model for dmd that possesses a premature stop codon in the dystrophin gene . 
exposure of mdx myotubes to gentamicin led to the expression and localization of dystrophin to the cell membrane . 
we then evaluated the effects of differing dosages of gentamicin on expression and functional protection of the muscles of mdx mice . 
we identified a treatment regimen that resulted in the presence of dystrophin in the cell membrane in all striated muscles examined and that provided functional protection against muscular injury . 
to our knowledge , our results are the first to demonstrate that aminoglycosides can suppress stop codons not only in vitro but also in vivo . 
furthermore , these results raise the possibility of a novel treatment regimen for muscular dystrophy and other diseases caused by premature stop codon mutations . 
this treatment could prove effective in up to _num2 % of patients with dmd . . 
molecular and metabolic basis for the metabolic disorder normotriglyceridemic abetalipoproteinemia . 
we have previously described a disorder , normotriglyceridemic abetalipoproteinemia , that is characterized by the virtual absence of plasma low density lipoproteins and complete absence of apob-100 , but with apparently normal secretion of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins containing apob-48 . 
the patients plasma lipoproteins were shown on polyacrylamide gels and by antibody mapping to have a new truncated apob variant , apob-50 , circulating along with her apob-48 . 
we have found this individual to be homozygous for a single c-to-t nucleotide substitution at apob codon _num4 , which produces a premature in-frame stop codon . 
thus , this is a rare example of homozygous hypobetalipoproteinemia . 
electron photomicrographs revealed that the diameters of particles in the d less than _num1 . 
_num3 g / ml lipoprotein fraction , in both the postprandial and postabsorptive state , are bimodally distributed . 
the molar ratio of apoe to apob in these particles is _num1 . 
_num1 _num1 , similar to normal vldl . 
the plasma ldl interval contains both spherical and cuboidal particles . 
autologous reinfusion of labeled d less than _num1 . 
_num3 g / ml lipoproteins showed exponential disappearance from plasma , with an apparent half-removal time of _num2 min , somewhat slower than for normal chylomicrons but within the normal range for vldl . 
the calculated production rate for apob was within the normal range in this subject . 
von willebrand disease type b : a missense mutation selectively abolishes ristocetin-induced von willebrand factor binding to platelet glycoprotein ib . 
von willebrand factor -lrb- vwf -rrb- is a multimeric glycoprotein that mediates the adhesion of platelets to the subendothelium by binding to platelet glycoprotein ib . 
for human vwf , this interaction can be induced in vitro by the antibiotic ristocetin or the snake venom protein botrocetin . 
a missense mutation , gly-561 -- > ser , was identified within the proposed glycoprotein ib binding domain of vwf in the proband with von willebrand disease type b , a unique variant characterized by no ristocetin-induced , but normal botrocetin-induced , binding to glycoprotein ib . 
the corresponding mutant recombinant protein , rvwf -lrb- g561s -rrb- , formed normal multimers and exhibited the same functional defect as the patients plasma vwf , confirming that this mutation causes von willebrand disease type b . 
these data show that botrocetin and ristocetin cofactor activities of vwf can be dissociated by a point mutation and confirm that these mediators promote vwf binding to platelets by different mechanisms . 
the normal botrocetin-induced binding and the defective ristocetin-induced binding of rvwf -lrb- g561s -rrb- suggest that the primary defect in von willebrand disease type b may be a failure of normal allosteric regulation of the glycoprotein ib binding function of vwf . . 
a high incidence of brca1 mutations in _num2 breast-ovarian cancer families . 
we have analyzed _num2 breast-ovarian cancer families , the majority of which show positive evidence of linkage to chromosome 17q12 for germ-line mutations in the brca1 gene . 
brca1 mutations cosegregating with breast and ovarian cancer susceptibility were identified in _num2 families , including _num1 family with a case of male breast cancer . 
nine of these mutations have not been reported previously . 
the majority of mutations were found to generate a premature stop codon leading to the formation of a truncated brca1 protein of _num1 % -88 % of the expected normal length . 
two mutations altered the ring finger domain . 
sequencing of genomic dna led to the identification of a mutation in the coding region of brca1 in _num2 families , and cdna analysis revealed an abnormal or missing brca1 transcript in _num1 of the _num1 remaining families . 
a total of eight mutations were associated with a reduced quantity of brca1 transcript . 
we were unable to detect brca1 mutations in _num1 of the _num2 families , but only _num1 of these was clearly linked to brca1 . 
it is expected that the majority of clear examples of the breast-ovarian syndrome will be associated with germ-line mutations in the coding region of brca1 . . 
assignment of the human na + / glucose cotransporter gene sglt1 to chromosome 22q13 .1 . 
the na + / glucose cotransporter gene sglt1 encodes the primary carrier protein responsible for the uptake of the dietary sugars glucose and galactose from the intestinal lumen . 
sglt1 transport activity is currently exploited in oral rehydration therapy . 
the 75-kda glycoprotein is localized in the brush border of the intestinal epithelium and is predicted to comprise _num2 membrane spans . 
in two patients with the autosomal recessive disease glucose / galactose malabsorption , the underlying cause was found to be a missense mutation in sglt1 , and the asp28 -- > asn change was demonstrated in vitro to eliminate sglt1 transport activity . 
the sglt1 gene was previously shown to reside on the distal q arm of chromosome _num2 -lrb- _num2 . 
_num1 -- > qter -rrb- . 
we have used a cosmid probe for fluorescence in situ hybridization , which refines the localization to 22q13 . 
_num1 , and provide an example of the utility of the sglt1 probe as a diagnostic for genetic diseases associated with translocations of chromosome _num2 . 
a pseudodeficiency allele common in non-jewish tay-sachs carriers : implications for carrier screening . 
deficiency of beta-hexosaminidase a -lrb- hex a -rrb- activity typically results in tay-sachs disease . 
however , healthy subjects found to be deficient in hex a activity -lrb- i. e. , pseudodeficient -rrb- by means of in vitro biochemical tests have been described . 
we analyzed the hexa gene of one pseudodeficient subject and identified both a c739-to-t substitution that changes arg247 -- trp on one allele and a previously identified tay-sachs disease mutation on the second allele . 
six additional pseudodeficient subjects were found to have the c739-to-t mutation . 
this allele accounted for _num2 % -lrb- 20 / 62 -rrb- of non-jewish enzyme-defined tay-sachs disease carriers but for none of _num2 jewish enzyme-defined carriers who did not have one of three known mutations common to this group . 
the c739-to-t allele , together with a '' true '' tay-sachs disease allele , causes hex a pseudodeficiency . 
given both the large proportion of non-jewish carriers with this allele and that standard biochemical screening can not differentiate between heterozygotes for the c739-to-t mutations and tay-sachs disease carriers , dna testing for this mutation in at-risk couples is essential . 
the presence of two different infantile tay-sachs disease mutations in a cajun population . 
a study was undertaken to characterize the mutation -lrb- s -rrb- responsible for tay-sachs disease -lrb- tsd -rrb- in a cajun population in southwest louisiana and to identify the origins of these mutations . 
eleven of _num2 infantile tsd alleles examined in six families had the beta-hexosaminidase a -lrb- hex a -rrb- alpha-subunit exon _num2 insertion mutation that is present in approximately _num2 % of ashkenazi jewish tsd heterozygotes . 
the mutation in the remaining allele was a single-base transition in the donor splice site of the alpha-subunit intron _num1 . 
to determine the origins of these two mutations in the cajun population , the tsd carrier status was enzymatically determined for _num2 members of four of the six families , and extensive pedigrees were constructed for all carriers . 
a single ancestral couple from france was found to be common to most of the carriers of the exon _num2 insertion . 
pedigree data suggest that this mutation has been in the cajun population since its founding over _num1 centuries ago and that it may be widely distributed within the population . 
in contrast , the intron _num1 mutation apparently was introduced within the last century and probably is limited to a few louisiana families . . 
canavan disease : genomic organization and localization of human aspa to 17p13-ter and conservation of the aspa gene during evolution . 
canavan disease , or spongy degeneration of the brain , is a severe leukodystrophy caused by the deficiency of aspartoacylase -lrb- aspa -rrb- . 
recently , a missense mutation was identified in human aspa coding sequence from patients with canavan disease . 
the human aspa gene has been cloned and found to span _num2 kb of the genome . 
human aspartoacylase is coded by six exons intervened by five introns . 
the exons vary from _num2 -lrb- exon iii -rrb- to _num3 -lrb- exon vi -rrb- bases . 
the exon / intron splice junction sites follow the gt / ag consensus sequence rule . 
southern blot analysis of genomic dna from human / mouse somatic cell hybrid cell lines localized aspa to human chromosome _num2 . 
the human aspa locus was further mapped in the 17p13-ter region by fluorescence in situ hybridization . 
the bovine aspa gene has also been cloned , and its exon / intron organization is identical to that of the human gene . 
the 500-base sequence upstream of the initiator _ds codon in the human gene and that in the bovine gene are _num2 % identical . 
human aspa coding sequences cross-hybridize with genomic dna from yeast , chicken , rabbit , cow , dog , mouse , rat , and monkey . 
the specificity of cross-species hybridization of coding sequences suggests that aspartoacylase has been conserved during evolution . 
it should now be possible to identify mutations in the noncoding genomic sequences that lead to canavan disease and to study the regulation of aspa . . 
adrenoleukodystrophy : survey of _num3 cases : biochemistry , diagnosis , and therapy . 
adrenoleukodystrophy -lrb- ald -rrb- is a genetically determined disorder associated with progressive central demyelination and adrenal cortical insufficiency . 
all affected persons show increased levels of saturated unbranched very-long-chain fatty acids , particularly hexacosanoate -lrb- _an _num1 -rrb- , because of impaired capacity to degrade these acids . 
this degradation normally takes place in a subcellular organelle called the peroxisome , and ald , together with zellwegers cerebrohepatorenal syndrome , is now considered to belong to the newly formed category of peroxisomal disorders . 
biochemical assays permit prenatal diagnosis , as well as identification of most heterozygotes . 
we have identified _num3 patients with ald in _num3 kindreds . 
these patients show a wide phenotypic variation . 
sixty percent of patients had childhood ald and _num2 % adrenomyeloneuropathy , both of which are x-linked , with the gene mapped to xq28 . 
neonatal ald , a distinct entity with autosomal recessive inheritance and points of resemblance to zellwegers syndrome , accounted for _num1 % of the cases . 
although excess _an _num1 in the brain of patients with ald is partially of dietary origin , dietary _an _num1 restriction did not produce clear benefit . 
bone marrow transplant lowered the plasma _an _num1 level but failed to arrest neurological progression . . 
french machado-joseph disease patients do not exhibit gametic segregation distortion : a sperm typing analysis . 
segregation distortion has been reported to occur in a number of the trinucleotide repeat disorders . 
on the basis of a sperm typing study performed in patients of japanese descent with machado-joseph disease -lrb- mjd -rrb- , it was reported that disease alleles are preferentially transmitted during meiosis . 
we performed a sperm typing study of five mjd patients of french descent and analysis of the pooled data shows a ratio of mutant to normal alleles of _num3 _num3 -lrb- _num2 . 
_num1 _num2 . 
_num1 % -rrb- , which does not support meiotic segregation distortion . 
to confirm these results , sperm typing analysis was also performed using a polymorphic marker , d14s1050 , closely linked to the mjd1 gene . 
among _num3 sperm analyzed , the allele linked to the disease chromosome was detected in _num2 . 
_num1 % of the samples and the allele linked to the normal chromosome was found in _num2 . 
_num1 % of the sperm . 
the difference in frequency of these two alleles is not significant -lrb- p = _num1 . 
_num4 -rrb- . 
likelihood-based analysis of segregation distortion in the single sperm data using the spermseg program also showed no support for segregation distortion at the gamete level in this patient population . 
the previous report on the japanese patients also suggested that disease allele stability may be influenced by a trans effect of an intragenic polymorphism -lrb- _num3 g / c -rrb- in the wild-type allele . 
all of the french patients were heterozygous for this polymorphism . 
however , analysis of the variance in repeat number in sperm from the french mjd patients overlapped significantly with the variance in repeat number observed in the c / c homozygous japanese patients . 
nebulin seen in dmd males including one patient with a large dna deletion encompassing the dmd gene . 
the presence of nebulin in a muscle specimen from a patient with duchenne muscular dystrophy -lrb- dmd -rrb- due to a large deletion precludes the possibility that this protein is the dmd gene product . . 
the human gene for alkaptonuria -lrb- aku -rrb- maps to chromosome 3q . 
alkaptonuria -lrb- aku ; mckusick no. _num6 -rrb- is a rare autosomal recessive disorder caused by the lack of homogentisic acid oxidase activity . 
patients excrete large amounts of homogentisic acid in their urine and a black ochronotic pigment is deposited in their cartilage and collagenous tissues . 
ochronosis is the predominant clinical complication of the disease leading to ochronotic arthropathy , dark urine , pigment changes of the skin , and other clinical features . 
a mutation causing alkaptonuria in the mouse has mapped to chromosome _num2 . 
considering conserved synteny , we were able to map the human gene to chromosome 3q in six alkaptonuria pedigrees of slovak origin . . 
the apc gene , responsible for familial adenomatous polyposis , is mutated in human gastric cancer . 
although gastric cancer is the most common cancer in the world , genetic changes during its carcinogenesis are not well understood . 
since some gastric cancers are considered to originate from the intestinal metaplasia , it is likely that the adenomatous polyposis coli -lrb- apc -rrb- gene , the mutation of which causes adenomatous polyps in the colon , is associated with carcinogenesis of gastric cancer . 
based on this idea , dnas isolated from gastric cancers were examined by means of a rnase protection analysis coupled with polymerase chain reaction followed by sequencing of the polymerase chain reaction products . 
by screening nearly one-half of the coding region of the apc gene in _num2 tumors , somatic mutations were detected in three tumors a missense mutation , a nonsense mutation , and a 5-base pair deletion resulting in a frame shift which causes truncation of the gene product . 
these results suggest that the mutation of the apc gene also plays an important role during the carcinogenesis of at least some gastric cancers . . 
molecular epidemiology of c9 deficiency heterozygotes with an arg95stop mutation of the c9 gene in japan . 
deficiency of the ninth component of human complement -lrb- c9 -rrb- is the most common complement deficiency in japan , with an incidence of approximately one homozygote in _num4 , but is very rare in other countries . 
genetic analyses of japanese c9 deficiency have shown that a c-to-t transition leading to _ds stop codon for arg95 in exon _num1 of the c9 gene -lrb- arg95stop -rrb- is common in japanese c9 deficiency . 
to determine the prevalence of heterozygous carriers of the arg95stop mutation in a japanese population , we collected dna samples from _num3 individuals in two of the four main islands of japan . 
heterozygote detection was performed with an allele-specific polymerase chain reaction -lrb- pcr -rrb- system designed to detect exclusively only one of the normal and mutant alleles , followed by confirmation with pcr / single-strand conformation polymorphism -lrb- sscp -rrb- analysis and direct sequencing . 
twenty individuals were heterozygous for the arg95stop mutation . 
none was homozygous . 
the prevalence of carriers of the arg95stop mutation was _num1 . 
_num1 % -lrb- 20 / 300 -rrb- . 
an estimated frequency -lrb- _num1 . 
_num2 % -rrb- of complete c9 deficiency due to homozygous arg95stop mutation was consistent with frequencies determined by serological studies molecular analysis of a female lesch-nyhan patient . 
we report the identification of a female patient with the x-linked recessive lesch-nyhan syndrome -lrb- hypoxanthine phosphoribosyltransferase -lsb- hprt -rsb- deficiency -rrb- . 
cytogenetic and carrier studies revealed structurally normal chromosomes for this patient and her parents and demonstrated that this mutation arose through a de novo gametic event . 
comparison of this patients dna with the dna of her parents revealed that a microdeletion , which occurred within a maternal gamete and involved the entire hprt gene , was partially responsible for the disease in this patient . 
somatic cell hybrids , generated to separate maternal and paternal x chromosomes , showed that expression of two additional x-linked enzymes , phosphoglycerate kinase and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase , were expressed only in cells that contained the maternal x chromosome , suggesting the presence of a functionally inactive paternal x chromosome . 
furthermore , comparison of methylation patterns within a region of the hprt gene known to be important in gene regulation revealed differences between dna from the father and the patient , in keeping with an active hprt locus in the father and an inactive hprt locus in the patient . 
together these data indicate that nonrandom inactivation of the cytogenetically normal paternal x chromosome and a microdeletion of the hprt gene on an active maternal x chromosome were responsible for the absence of hprt in this patient . . 
changes at _an of emerin weaken its protein-protein interactions resulting in x-linked emery-dreifuss muscular dystrophy . 
emery-dreifuss muscular dystrophy -lrb- edmd -rrb- is an x-linked recessive muscular dystrophy characterized by early contractures of the elbows , achilles tendons and spine , slowly progressive muscle wasting and weakness , and cardiomyopathy associated with cardiac conduction defects . 
the emerin gene has been mapped to xq28 and encodes a 34-kda serine-rich protein , emerin , which has been localized to the nuclear envelope in a wide variety of tissues , including skeletal and cardiac muscle . 
mutations spanning the emerin gene have been identified in patients with edmd . 
we present here the effect , on emerin protein expression , of two missense mutations identified in unrelated edmd patients . 
these alterations predict the replacement of a proline residue at position _num3 with either a histidine or a threonine . 
biochemical analysis has demonstrated that the mobility and expression levels of the mutant forms of emerin are indistinguishable from that of wild-type emerin , but that they have weakened interactions with nuclear lamina components . 
in comparison with the usual edmd phenotype , patients with _an missense mutations have a later age at onset of first symptoms , elbow contractures , ankle contractures , upper limb weakness and lower limb weakness , but there is no difference for the age at onset of cardiac involvement . 
this is the first report of protein studies on patients with missense mutations resulting in the clinical features of edmd . 
these studies demonstrate the importance of proline _num3 for the proper structure / function of emerin . . 
decreased expression of brca1 accelerates growth and is often present during sporadic breast cancer progression . 
we have characterized expression of the familial breast and ovarian cancer gene , brca1 , in cases of non-hereditary -lrb- sporadic -rrb- breast cancer and analyzed the effect of antisense inhibition of brca1 on the proliferative rate of mammary epithelial cells . 
brca1 mrna levels are markedly decreased during the transition from carcinoma in situ to invasive cancer . 
experimental inhibition of brca1 expression with antisense oligonucleotides produced accelerated growth of normal and malignant mammary cells , but had no effect on non-mammary epithelial cells . 
these studies suggest that brca1 may normally serve as a negative regulator of mammary epithelial cell growth whose function is compromised in breast cancer either by direct mutation or alterations in gene expression . . 
additional copies of the proteolipid protein gene causing pelizaeus-merzbacher disease arise by separate integration into the x chromosome . 
the proteolipid protein gene -lrb- plp -rrb- is normally present at chromosome xq22 . 
mutations and duplications of this gene are associated with pelizaeus-merzbacher disease -lrb- pmd -rrb- . 
here we describe two new families in which males affected with pmd were found to have a copy of plp on the short arm of the x chromosome , in addition to a normal copy on xq22 . 
in the first family , the extra copy was first detected by the presence of heterozygosity of the ahaii dimorphism within the plp gene . 
the results of fish analysis showed an additional copy of plp in xp22 . 
_num1 , although no chromosomal rearrangements could be detected by standard karyotype analysis . 
another three affected males from the family had similar findings . 
in a second unrelated family with signs of pmd , cytogenetic analysis showed a pericentric inversion of the x chromosome . 
in the inv -lrb- x -rrb- carried by several affected family members , fish showed plp signals at xp11 . 
_num1 and xq22 . 
a third family has previously been reported , in which affected members had an extra copy of the plp gene detected at xq26 in a chromosome with an otherwise normal banding pattern . 
the identification of three separate families in which plp is duplicated at a noncontiguous site suggests that such duplications could be a relatively common but previously undetected cause of genetic disorders . 
linkage relationships of the apolipoprotein c1 gene and a cytochrome _an gene -lrb- cyp2a -rrb- to myotonic dystrophy . 
we have studied the genetic linkage of two markers , the apolipoprotein c1 -lrb- apoc1 -rrb- gene and a cytochrome _an -lrb- cyp2a -rrb- gene , in relation to the gene for myotonic dystrophy -lrb- dm -rrb- . 
a peak lod score of _num1 . 
_num2 at _num1 cm was observed for apoc1-dm , with a lod score of _num1 . 
_num2 at _num1 cm for cyp2a-dm . 
these two markers also show close linkage to each other -lrb- theta max = _num1 . 
_num2 , zmax = _num1 . 
_num2 -rrb- . 
from examination of the genotypes of the recombinant individuals , cyp2a appears to map proximal to dm because in one recombinant individual cyp2a , apoc2 and ckmm had all recombined with dm . 
evidence from another cyp2a-dm recombinant individual places cyp2a proximal to apoc2 and ckmm . 
localisation of cyp2a on a panel of somatic cell hybrids also suggests that it is proximal to dm and apoc2 / c1 / e gene cluster . 
beta-galactosidase gene mutations affecting the lysosomal enzyme and the elastin-binding protein in gm1-gangliosidosis patients with cardiac involvement . 
gm1-gangliosidosis is a lysosomal storage disorder caused by deficiency of acid beta-galactosidase -lrb- glb1 -rrb- . 
we report five new beta-galactosidase gene mutations in nine italian patients and one fetus , segregating in seven unrelated families . 
six of the eight patients with the infantile , severe form of the disease presented cardiac involvement , a feature rarely associated with gm1-gangliosidosis . 
molecular analysis of the patients rna and dna identified two new rna splicing defects , three new and three previously described amino acid substitutions . 
interestingly , all patients with cardiac involvement were homozygous for one of these mutations r59h , y591c , y591n , or ivs14-2a > g . 
in contrast , all other patients were compound heterozygous for one of the following mutations r201h , r482h , g579d , ivs8 + 2t > c. although we could not directly correlate the presence of cardiac abnormalities with specific genetic lesions , the mutations identified in patients with cardiomyopathy fell in the glb1 cdna region common to the lysosomal enzyme and the hbeta-gal-related protein , also known as the elastin binding protein -lrb- ebp -rrb- . 
consequently , both molecules are affected by the mutations , and they may contribute differently to the occurrence of specific clinical manifestations . . 
exclusion of linkage between familial mediterranean fever and the human serum amyloid a -lrb- saa -rrb- gene cluster . 
we studied the relationship between the autosomal recessive trait familial mediterranean fever -lrb- fmf -rrb- and the serum amyloid a -lrb- saa -rrb- genes by comparing alleles of a highly polymorphic dinucleotide repeat and a conventional restriction fragment length polymorphism -lrb- rflp -rrb- in the saa gene cluster in israeli fmf kindreds . 
by haplotype analysis , our data indicate a minimum crossover frequency of _num2 % between the saa gene marker and fmf . 
by conventional linkage analysis this eliminates a minimum of _num2 . 
_num1 cm including and surrounding the saa gene cluster as the site of the fmf mutation although saa proteins are prominent physiologic markers of the acute attacks . 
mice deficient in six5 develop cataracts : implications for myotonic dystrophy . 
expansion of a _ds trinucleotide repeat in the _num1 utr of the gene dmpk at the dm1 locus on chromosome _num2 causes myotonic dystrophy , a dominantly inherited disease characterized by skeletal muscle dystrophy and myotonia , cataracts and cardiac conduction defects . 
targeted deletion of dm15 , the mouse orthologue of human dmpk , produced mice with a mild myopathy and cardiac conduction abnormalities , but without other features of myotonic dystrophy , such as myotonia and cataracts . 
we , and others , have demonstrated that repeat expansion decreases expression of the adjacent gene six5 -lrb- refs _num1 , _num1 -rrb- , which encodes a homeodomain transcription factor . 
to determine whether six5 deficiency contributes to the myotonic dystrophy phenotype , we disrupted mouse six5 by replacing the first exon with a beta-galactosidase reporter . 
six5-mutant mice showed reporter expression in multiple tissues , including the developing lens . 
homozygous mutant mice had no apparent abnormalities of skeletal muscle function , but developed lenticular opacities at a higher rate than controls . 
our results suggest that six5 deficiency contributes to the cataract phenotype in myotonic dystrophy , and that myotonic dystrophy represents a multigenic disorder . . 
screening for germ-line mutations in familial adenomatous polyposis patients : _num2 new patients and a summary of _num3 unrelated patients . 
we report here the result of a screening for germ-line mutations in the adenomatous polyposis coli -lrb- apc -rrb- gene in _num2 new familial adenomatous polyposis -lrb- fap -rrb- patients as well as a summary of the results of _num3 patients . 
examination of the entire coding region of the apc gene , based on a ribonuclease protection assay coupled with the polymerase chain reaction -lrb- pcr -rrb- , disclosed mutations that were considered to cause significant defects in the apc product in _num2 of _num3 unrelated fap patients . 
our findings revealed the following characteristics of the germ-line mutations of apc _num1 -rrb- the great majority of the mutations were found to truncate the apc product ; _num1 -rrb- almost all of the mutations were located within the first half of the coding region ; _num1 -rrb- no correlation was observed between the locations of germ-line mutations and extracolonic manifestations in fap patients ; _num1 -rrb- more than _num2 % of base substitutions in the apc gene were from cytosine to other nucleotides , nearly one-third of which occurred at the gpg site . 
our results provide information helpful to an understanding of the apc gene and will also contribute to presymptomatic diagnosis of members in fap families . . 
hereditary deficiency of c5 in association with discoid lupus erythematosus . 
a 29-year-old woman with discoid lupus erythematosus had undetectable classic pathway complement activity . 
hypocomplementemia was due to selective deficiency of c5 . 
one of her children was also deficient . 
to our knowledge this is the first documented case of an association between discoid lupus erythematosus and c5 deficiency . . 
isolation , genomic organization , and expression analysis of the mouse and rat homologs of mefv , the gene for familial mediterranean fever . 
familial mediterranean fever -lrb- fmf -rrb- is a recessive disorder characterized by episodes of fever with serositis or synovitis . 
recently the fmf gene -lrb- mefv -rrb- was cloned ; the protein product , pyrin / marenostrin , is thought to regulate inflammation in myeloid cells . 
in this manuscript we report the mouse and rat homologs of mefv . 
the murine gene contains ten exons with a coding sequence of _num4 bp , while the rat homolog has nine exons with a coding sequence of _num4 bp . 
a considerable amino acid sequence homology was observed between the mouse and human -lrb- _num2 . 
_num1 % identity and _num2 . 
_num1 % similarity -rrb- and between the mouse and rat genes -lrb- _num2 . 
_num1 % identity and _num2 . 
_num1 % similarity -rrb- . 
the predicted rodent proteins have several important domains and signals found in human pyrin , including a b-box zinc finger domain , robbins-dingwall nuclear localization signal , and coiled-coil domain . 
however , perhaps because of an ancient frame-shift mutation , neither the mouse nor the rat protein has an intact c-terminal _an . 
_num1 domain , in which most fmf associated mutations have been found in human mefv . 
nevertheless , like the human gene , mouse mefv is expressed in peripheral blood granulocytes but not lymphocytes . 
consistent with its expression in granulocytes , mefv was detected at high levels in the primary follicles and marginal zones of the splenic white pulp . 
mefv is localized on mouse chromosome -lrb- chr -rrb- _num2 , region a3-b1 , extending a region of synteny with human chr 16p13 . 
_num1 . 
development of knockout and knockin mouse models may provide further insights into the functional evolution of this gene . 
analysis of x-chromosome inactivation and presumptive expression of the wiskott-aldrich syndrome -lrb- was -rrb- gene in hematopoietic cell lineages of a thrombocytopenic carrier female of was . 
we report on a thrombocytopenic female belonging to a pedigree with the wiskott-aldrich syndrome -lrb- was -rrb- . 
restriction fragment length polymorphism -lrb- rflp -rrb- analysis with probe _an beta , closely linked to the was gene , demonstrated that she is a carrier of was . 
both small-sized and normal-sized platelets were present , suggesting that , unlike the vast majority of was carriers , she does not manifest nonrandom x-chromosome inactivation in the thrombopoietic cell lineage . 
study of x-chromosome inactivation by means of rflp and methylation analysis demonstrated that the pattern of x-chromosome inactivation was nonrandom in t lymphocytes , but random in granulocytes . 
while this is the first complete report on the occurrence of thrombocytopenia in a carrier female of was as the result of atypical lyonization , it also suggests that expression of the was gene occurs at -lrb- or extends up to -rrb- a later stage than the multipotent stem cell along the hematopoietic differentiation pathway . . 
hcds1-mediated phosphorylation of brca1 regulates the dna damage response . 
mutations in the brca1 -lrb- ref . 
_num1 -rrb- tumour suppressor gene are found in almost all of the families with inherited breast and ovarian cancers and about half of the families with only breast cancer . 
although the biochemical function of brca1 is not well understood , it is important for dna damage repair and cell-cycle checkpoint . 
brca1 exists in nuclear foci but is hyperphosphorylated and disperses after dna damage . 
it is not known whether brca1 phosphorylation and dispersion and its function in dna damage response are related . 
in yeast the dna damage response and the replication-block checkpoint are mediated partly through the cds1 kinase family . 
here we report that the human cds1 kinase -lrb- hcds1 / chk2 -rrb- regulates brca1 function after dna damage by phosphorylating serine _num3 of brca1 . 
we show that hcds1 and brca1 interact and co-localize within discrete nuclear foci but separate after gamma irradiation . 
phosphorylation of brca1 at serine _num3 is required for the release of brca1 from hcds1 . 
this phosphorylation is also important for the ability of brca1 to restore survival after dna damage in the brca1-mutated cell line hcc1937 . . 
ataxin-3 with an altered conformation that exposes the polyglutamine domain is associated with the nuclear matrix . 
spinocerebellar ataxia type-3 or machado-joseph disease -lrb- sca3 / mjd -rrb- is a member of the cag / polyglutamine repeat disease family . 
in this family of disorders , a normally polymorphic _ds repeat becomes expanded , resulting in expression of an expanded polyglutamine domain in the disease gene product . 
experimental models of polyglutamine disease implicate the nucleus in pathogenesis ; however , the link between intranuclear expression of expanded polyglutamine and neuronal dysfunction remains unclear . 
here we demonstrate that ataxin-3 , the disease protein in sca3 / mjd , adopts a unique conformation when expressed within the nucleus of transfected cells . 
the monoclonal antibody 1c2 is known preferentially to bind expanded polyglutamine , but we find that it also binds a fragment of ataxin-3 containing a normal glutamine repeat . 
in addition , expression of ataxin-3 within the nucleus exposes the glutamine domain of the full-length non-pathological protein , allowing it to bind the monoclonal antibody 1c2 . 
fractionation and immunochemical experiments indicate that this novel conformation of intranuclear ataxin-3 is not due to proteolysis , suggesting instead that association with nuclear protein -lrb- s -rrb- alters the structure of full-length ataxin-3 which exposes the polyglutamine domain . 
this conformationally altered ataxin-3 is bound to the nuclear matrix . 
the pathological form of ataxin-3 with an expanded polyglutamine domain also associates with the nuclear matrix . 
these data suggest that an early event in the pathogenesis of sca3 / mjd may be an altered conformation of ataxin-3 within the nucleus that exposes the polyglutamine domain . . 
a zinc finger truncation of murine wt1 results in the characteristic urogenital abnormalities of denys-drash syndrome . 
the wilms tumor - suppressor gene , wt1 , plays a key role in urogenital development , and wt1 dysfunction is implicated in both neoplastic -lrb- wilms tumor , mesothelioma , leukemias , and breast cancer -rrb- and nonneoplastic -lrb- glomerulosclerosis -rrb- disease . 
the analysis of diseases linked specifically with wt1 mutations , such as denys-drash syndrome -lrb- dds -rrb- , can provide valuable insight concerning the role of wt1 in development and disease . 
dds is a rare childhood disease characterized by a nephropathy involving mesangial sclerosis , xy pseudohermaphroditism , and / or wilms tumor -lrb- wt -rrb- . 
dds patients are constitutionally heterozygous for exonic point mutations in wt1 , which include mutations predicted to truncate the protein within the c-terminal zinc finger -lrb- zf -rrb- region . 
we report that heterozygosity for a targeted murine wt1 allele , wt1 -lrb- tmt396 -rrb- , which truncates zf3 at codon _num3 , induces mesangial sclerosis characteristic of dds in adult heterozygous and chimeric mice . 
male genital defects also were evident and there was a single case of wilms tumor in which the transcript of the nontargeted allele showed an exon _num1 skipping event , implying a causal link between wt1 dysfunction and wilms tumorigenesis in mice . 
however , the mutant wt1 -lrb- tmt396 -rrb- protein accounted for only _num1 % of wt1 in both heterozygous embryonic stem cells and the wt . 
this has implications regarding the mechanism by which the mutant allele exerts its effect . 
heterogeneity of `` mediterranean type '' glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase -lrb- g6pd -rrb- deficiency in spain and description of two new variants associated with favism . 
glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase -lrb- g6pd -rrb- ; ec _num1 . 
_num1 . 
_num1 . 
_num2 from thirty-six unrelated spanish males was partially purified from blood , and the variants were characterized biochemically and electrophoretically according to the methods recommended by the world health organization . 
subjects were from multiple geographic regions within spain , and all suffered from hemolytic anemia , either acute -lrb- _num2 cases -rrb- or chronic nonspherocytic -lrb- _num1 cases -rrb- . 
almost all the variants studied presented residual erythrocyte g6pd activity ranging from _num1 to _num2 % of normal , and five different mutants were responsible for the deficient phenotype . 
three variants were similar to others previously described g6pd mediterranean -lrb- _num2 cases -rrb- , g6pd athens-like -lrb- _num1 cases -rrb- , and g6pd union -lrb- _num1 cases -rrb- . 
the remaining variants were different from the numerous variants already reported and have been considered as new mutants . 
provisionally they are called g6pd betica -lrb- _num2 cases -rrb- and g6pd menorca -lrb- _num1 case -rrb- . 
the present study constitutes the first attempt to characterize the deficient g6pd variants found in spain and supplies new data on the relationship between molecular characteristics of deficient variants and their clinical manifestations . 
the most important findings can be summarized as follows -lrb- _num1 -rrb- the spanish population is characterized by an important heterogeneity in g6pd deficiency . 
-lrb- _num1 -rrb- although g6pd mediterranean is very frequent , it presents a relatively high degree of polymorphism . 
-lrb- _num1 -rrb- favism has been observed associated with all kinds of variants described here . 
-lrb- _num1 -rrb- g6pd betica , which is the most frequent variant found in subjects of southern spanish origin , has been observed associated with favism in all cases except one . 
early onset of x-linked emery-dreifuss muscular dystrophy in a boy with emerin gene deletion . 
a boy developed contractures of the achilles tendons at _num1 years and of the postcervical muscles at _num1 years , although neither contractures of the elbows nor cardiac abnormality were recognized by the age of _num1 years . 
muscle computed tomography scanning revealed changes characteristic of muscle involvement . 
emerin was not detected in the biopsied muscle , and rt-pcr and pcr-based genomic dna analyses of the emerin gene demonstrated no amplification product in the patient . 
these results confirmed the diagnosis of x-linked emery-dreifuss muscular dystrophy -lrb- edmd -rrb- , and reinforce the necessity of molecular genetic diagnosis of the membrane protein emerin in younger patients with possible edmd before appearance of the typical symptoms , to avoid sudden cardiac death . . 
prad1 , a candidate bcl1 oncogene : mapping and expression in centrocytic lymphoma . 
rearrangement of the bcl1 -lrb- b-cell lymphoma _num1 -rrb- region on chromosome 11q13 appears to be highly characteristic of centrocytic lymphoma and also is found infrequently in other b-cell neoplasms . 
rearrangement is thought to deregulate a nearby protooncogene , but transcribed sequences in the immediate vicinity of bcl1 breakpoints had not been identified . 
prad1 , previously designated d11s287e , was identified on 11q13 as a chromosomal breakpoint region rearranged with the parathyroid hormone gene in a subset of parathyroid adenomas ; this highly conserved putative oncogene , which encodes a novel cyclin , has been linked to bcl1 and implicated also in subsets of breast and squamous cell neoplasms with 11q13 amplification . 
we report pulsed-field gel electrophoresis data showing bcl1 and prad1 to be no more than _num3 kilobases apart . 
prad1 mrna is abundantly expressed in seven of seven centrocytic lymphomas -lrb- kiel classification -rrb- , in contrast to _num2 closely related but noncentrocytic lymphomas . 
three of the seven centrocytic lymphomas had detectable bcl1 dna rearrangement . 
also , two unusual cases of cll with bcl1 rearrangement overexpressed prad1 , in contrast to five cll controls . 
thus , prad1 is an excellent candidate '' bcl1 oncogene . '' 
its overexpression may be a key consequence of rearrangement of the bcl1 vicinity in b-cell neoplasms and a unifying pathogenetic feature in centrocytic lymphoma . 
adrenoleukodystrophy : increased plasma content of saturated very long chain fatty acids . 
with a new method we measured the saturated very long chain fatty acids in the plasma of adrenoleukodystrophy -lrb- ald -rrb- hemizygotes , ald heterozygotes , and controls . 
ald hemizygotes showed increased levels of hexacosanoate -lrb- _an fatty acid -rrb- which represented _num1 . 
_num3 + / - _num1 . 
_num4 % -lrb- sem -rrb- of total fatty acids , compared to _num1 . 
_num3 + / - _num1 . 
_num4 % in the controls . 
_an , _an , and _an fatty acids were also increased , but the _an and _an fatty acids were normal . 
_an levels were also increased in most ald heterozygotes , with a mean level _num1 . 
_num3 + / - _num1 . 
_num4 % of total fatty acids . 
the technique can be used for diagnosis and carrier identification , and in the evaluation of therapy . 
glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency inhibits in vitro growth of plasmodium falciparum . 
glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase -lrb- g6pd ; ec -rrb- -deficient red blood cells from male hemizygotes and female heterozygotes from the island of sardinia were studied for their ability to support growth in vitro of the malaria causing organism plasmodium falciparum . 
parasite growth was approximately one-third of normal in both hemi - and heterozygotes for g6pd deficiency . 
in sardinians with the beta 0-thalassemia trait , parasite growth was normal except when g6pd deficiency occurred together with the thalassemia trait . 
the data support the hypothesis that g6pd deficiency may confer a selective advantage in a malarious area ; the female heterozygote may be at a particular advantage because resistance to malaria equals that of male hemizygotes , but the risk of fatal hemolysis may be less . 
however , more female heterozygotes must be studied to confirm this hypothesis . 
no protective effect of beta 0-thalassemia trait could be demonstrated in vitro . 
heterozygous c2 deficiency associated with angioedema , myasthenia gravis , and systemic lupus erythematosus . 
we describe a patient with myasthenia gravis , systemic lupus erythematosus , and angioedema associated with heterozygous complement factor _num1 -lrb- c2 -rrb- deficiency . 
the significance of this association is controversial , though the association of c2 deficiency with certain histocompatibility antigens suggests possible linkage to immune response genes . 
to our knowledge this is the first report of heterozygous c2 deficiency in association with this combination of autoimmune disorders , and we discuss the aetiological implications . . 
inherited c3 deficiency with recurrent infections and glomerulonephritis . 
a 10-year-old laotian boy had homozygous deficiency of the third component of complement and recurrent bacterial infections beginning at age _num1 months . 
cellular and humoral immunity were normal , as were polymorphonuclear leukocyte chemotaxis and bactericidal activities . 
serum complement-mediated hemolytic , chemotactic , and opsonic activities were deficient . 
in vitro addition of purified c3 to patient serum restored hemolytic complement to normal levels , and plasma infusion during each of four episodes of pneumonia significantly enhanced serum opsonic activity for as long as _num2 hours . 
a renal biopsy specimen revealed mesangiopathic glomerulonephritis , although significant levels of circulating igg immune complexes were not detected . 
these findings further support the association of c3 deficiency with immune-complex disease and suggest that plasma infusion may be an adjunct to antibiotic therapy in the management of severe pyogenic infections in patients with c3 deficiency . . 
southern analysis reveals a large deletion at the hypoxanthine phosphoribosyltransferase locus in a patient with lesch-nyhan syndrome . 
whole genomic hprt clones were used in southern analysis to screen the integrity of the hprt gene in a family that includes a patient with hprt enzyme deficiency causal to lesch-nyhan syndrome . 
a _num1 kb dna sequence deletion was found to have its endpoints in the first and third introns . 
the probes identified the carrier status of female family members , aided by an rflp carried by the mothers normal x-chromosome . . 
association of brca1 with the hrad50-hmre11-p95 complex and the dna damage response . 
brca1 encodes a tumor suppressor that is mutated in familial breast and ovarian cancers . 
here , it is shown that brca1 interacts in vitro and in vivo with hrad50 , which forms a complex with hmre11 and p95 / nibrin . 
upon irradiation , brca1 was detected in discrete foci in the nucleus , which colocalize with hrad50 . 
formation of irradiation-induced foci positive for brca1 , hrad50 , hmre11 , or _an was dramatically reduced in hcc / 1937 breast cancer cells carrying a homozygous mutation in brca1 but was restored by transfection of wild-type brca1 . 
ectopic expression of wild-type , but not mutated , brca1 in these cells rendered them less sensitive to the dna damage agent , methyl methanesulfonate . 
these data suggest that brca1 is important for the cellular responses to dna damage that are mediated by the hrad50-hmre11-p95 complex . . 
nebulin and titin expression in duchenne muscular dystrophy appears normal . 
monoclonal antibodies which recognize different epitopes on either titin or nebulin show normal staining patterns on frozen sections of three muscle biopsies of duchenne muscular dystrophy -lrb- dmd -rrb- . 
gel electrophoresis and immunoblotting performed on two of these muscle biopsies show the normal pattern of titin and nebulin polypeptides . 
since the donor of one of these biopsies has a large deletion of the 5-region of the dmd gene , our results argue against the recent proposal that nebulin is the gene mutated in dmd . . 
myotonic dystrophy kinase is a component of neuromuscular junctions . 
the clinical manifestation of myotonic dystrophy -lrb- dm -rrb- is correlated to the extent of expansion of an unstable -lsb- _ds -rsb- n dna motif . 
recent studies have demonstrated that this trinucleotide motif forms part of the last , _num1 untranslated exon of a gene which potentially encodes multiple protein isoforms of a serine / threonine protein kinase -lrb- myotonic dystrophy protein kinase , dm-pk -rrb- . 
we report here on the development of antisera against synthetic dm-pk peptide antigens and their use in biochemical and histochemical studies . 
immunoreactive dm-kinase protein of _num2 kd is present at low levels in skeletal and cardiac muscle extracts of dm patients and normal controls . 
immunohistochemical staining revealed that dm-pk is localised prominently at sites of neuromuscular and myotendinous junctions -lrb- nmjs and mtjs -rrb- of human and rodent skeletal muscles . 
furthermore , very low levels of immunoreactive dm-pk protein are present in the sarcoplasm of predominantly type i fibres in various muscles . 
strikingly , presence of the protein can also be demonstrated for nmjs of muscular tissues of adult and congenital cases of dm , with no gross changes in structural organisation . 
our findings provide a basis for further characterisation of the role of the kinase in protein assembly processes or signal mediation at synaptic sites and ultimately for the understanding of the complex pathophysiology of dm . . 
new genetic variants of glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase -lrb- g6pd -rrb- in italy . 
six new variants of human erythrocyte g6pd have been characterized . 
all of them were found in italian males and all were associated with enzyme deficiency , but only two with signs of haemolysis . 
these and other variants reported in the literature , which must thus far be regarded as sporadic , are found to map in parts of italy where common types of g6pd deficiency are also prevalent . . 
atm-heterozygous germline mutations contribute to breast cancer susceptibility . 
approximately _num1 . 
_num1 % -1 % of the general population has been estimated to be heterozygous for a germline mutation in the atm gene . 
mutations in the atm gene are responsible for the autosomal recessive disorder ataxia-telangiectasia -lrb- a-t -rrb- -lrb- mim _num6 -rrb- . 
the finding that atm-heterozygotes have an increased relative risk for breast cancer was supported by some studies but not confirmed by others . 
in view of this discrepancy , we examined the frequency of atm germline mutations in a selected group of dutch patients with breast cancer . 
we have analyzed atm germline mutations in normal blood lymphocytes , using the protein-truncation test followed by genomic-sequence analysis . 
a high percentage of atm germline mutations was demonstrated among patients with sporadic breast cancer . 
the _num2 patients included in this study had developed breast cancer at age < _num2 and had survived > / = _num1 years -lrb- mean _num2 years -rrb- , and in _num2 -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- of the patients a contralateral breast tumor had been diagnosed . 
among these patients we identified seven -lrb- _num1 . 
_num1 % -rrb- atm germline mutations , of which five are distinct . 
one splice-site mutation -lrb- ivs10-6t -- > g -rrb- was detected three times in our series . 
four heterozygous carriers were patients with bilateral breast cancer . 
our results indicate that the mutations identified in this study are '' a-t disease-causing '' mutations that might be associated with an increased risk of breast cancer in heterozygotes . 
we conclude that atm heterozygotes have an approximately ninefold-increased risk of developing a type of breast cancer characterized by frequent bilateral occurrence , early age at onset , and long-term survival . 
the specific characteristics of our population of patients may explain why such a high frequency was not found in other series . 
autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome -lrb- alps -rrb- in a child from consanguineous parents : a dominant or recessive disease ? 
autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome -lrb- alps -rrb- is characterized by autoimmune features and lymphoproliferations and is generally caused by defective fas-mediated apoptosis . 
this report describes a child with clinical features of alps without detectable fas expression on freshly isolated blood leukocytes . 
detection of fas transcripts via real-time quantitative pcr made a severe transcriptional defect unlikely . 
sequencing of the fas gene revealed a 20-nucleotide duplication in the last exon affecting the cytoplasmic signaling domain . 
the patient was homozygous for this mutation , whereas the consanguineous parents and the siblings were heterozygous . 
the patient reported here is a human homologue of the fas-null mouse , inasmuch as she carries an autosomal homozygous mutation in the fas gene and she shows the severe and accelerated alps phenotype . 
the heterozygous family members did not have the alps phenotype , indicating that the disease-causing fas mutation in this family is autosomal recessive . . 
a prevalent mutation for galactosemia among black americans . 
objective to define the mutation causing galactosemia in patients of black american origin who have no galactose-1-phosphate uridyltransferase -lrb- galt -rrb- activity in erythrocytes but good clinical outcome . 
methods we discovered a mutation caused by a c -- > t transition at base-pair _num4 of the galt gene that results in a serine-to-leucine substitution at codon _num3 -lrb- s135l -rrb- . 
we developed a method with which to screen populations for its prevalence . 
we compared galactose-1-phosphate uridyltransferase among erythrocytes , leukocytes , and transformed lymphoblasts , as well as total body oxidation of d - -lrb- 13c -rrb- - galactose to 13co2 among three genotypes for galt -lrb- s135l / s135l , q188r / q188r , and normal / normal -rrb- . 
results we found a _num2 % prevalence of the s135l mutation among _num2 black american patients with classic galactosemia and a _num1 % prevalence in a population of _num2 black americans without galactosemia . 
the s135l mutation was not found in _num2 white patients with g / g galactosemia nor in _num2 white control subjects without galactosemia . 
we found normal whole body oxidation of d - -lrb- 13c -rrb- - galactose by the patient homozygous for s135l and various degrees of enzyme impairment among different tissues . 
conclusions the s135l mutation in the galt gene is a prevalent cause of galactosemia among black patients . 
because galt activity varies in different tissues of patients homozygous for s135l , they may have a better clinical outcome than patients who are homozygous for q188r when both are treated from infancy . . 
constitutive and regulated modes of splicing produce six major myotonic dystrophy protein kinase -lrb- dmpk -rrb- isoforms with distinct properties . 
myotonic dystrophy -lrb- dm -rrb- is the most prevalent inherited neuromuscular disease in adults . 
the genetic defect is a _ds triplet repeat expansion in the 3-untranslated region of the myotonic dystrophy protein kinase -lrb- dmpk -rrb- gene , consisting of _num2 exons . 
using a transgenic dmpk-overexpressor mouse model , we demonstrate here that the endogenous mouse dmpk gene and the human dmpk transgene produce six major alternatively spliced mrnas which have almost identical cell type-dependent distribution frequencies and expression patterns . 
use of a cryptic _num1 splice site in exon _num1 , which results in absence or presence of _num2 nucleotides specifying a vsggg peptide motif , and / or use of a cryptic _num1 splice site in exon _num2 , which leads to a frameshift in the mrna reading frame , occur as independent stochastic events in all tissues examined . 
in contrast , the excision of exons 13 / 14 that causes a frameshift and creates a c-terminally truncated protein is clearly cell type dependent and occurs predominantly in smooth muscle . 
we generated all six full-length mouse cdnas that result from combinations of these three major splicing events and show that their transfection into cells in culture leads to production of four different approximately _num2 kda full-length -lrb- heart - , skeletal muscle - or brain-specific -rrb- and two c-terminally truncated approximately _num2 kda -lrb- smooth muscle-specific -rrb- isoforms . 
information on dmpk mrna and protein isoform expression patterns will be useful for recognizing differential effects of -lrb- _ds -rrb- -lrb- n -rrb- expansion in dm manifestation . . 
linkage analysis in a large brazilian family with van der woude syndrome suggests the existence of a susceptibility locus for cleft palate at 17p11.2-11 .1 . 
van der woude syndrome -lrb- vws -rrb- , which has been mapped to 1q32-41 , is characterized by pits and / or sinuses of the lower lip , cleft lip / palate -lrb- cl / p -rrb- , cleft palate -lrb- cp -rrb- , bifid uvula , and hypodontia -lrb- h -rrb- . 
the expression of vws , which has incomplete penetrance , is highly variable . 
both the occurrence of cl / p and cp within the same genealogy and a recurrence risk < _num2 % for cp among descendants with vws have suggested that the development of clefts in this syndrome is influenced by modifying genes at other loci . 
to test this hypothesis , we have conducted linkage analysis in a large brazilian kindred with vws , considering as affected the individuals with cp , regardless of whether it is associated with other clinical signs of vws . 
our results suggest that a gene at 17p11 . 
2-11 2-11 . 
_num1 , together with the vws gene at 1p32-41 , enhances the probability of cp in an individual carrying the two at-risk genes . 
if this hypothesis is confirmed in other vws pedigrees , it will represent one of the first examples of a gene , mapped through linkage analysis , which modifies the expression of a major gene . 
diverse point mutations in the human glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase gene cause enzyme deficiency and mild or severe hemolytic anemia . 
glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase -lrb- g6pd ; ec -rrb- deficiency is a common genetic abnormality affecting an estimated _num3 million people worldwide . 
clinical and biochemical analyses have identified many variants exhibiting a range of phenotypes , which have been well characterized from the hematological point of view . 
however , until now , their precise molecular basis has remained unknown . 
we have cloned and sequenced seven mutant g6pd alleles . 
in the nondeficient polymorphic african variant g6pd a we have found a single point mutation . 
the other six mutants investigated were all associated with enzyme deficiency . 
in one of the commonest , g6pd mediterranean , which is associated with favism among other clinical manifestations , a single amino acid replacement was found -lrb- serine -- phenylalanine -rrb- it must be responsible for the decreased stability and the reduced catalytic efficiency of this enzyme . 
single point mutations were also found in g6pd metaponto -lrb- southern italy -rrb- and in g6pd ilesha -lrb- nigeria -rrb- , which are asymptomatic , and in g6pd chatham , which was observed in an indian boy with neonatal jaundice . 
in g6pd '' matera , '' which is now known to be the same as g6pd a - , two separate point mutations were found , one of which is the same as in g6pd a . 
in g6pd santiago , a de novo mutation -lrb- glycine -- arginine -rrb- is associated with severe chronic hemolytic anemia . 
the mutations observed show a striking predominance of c -- t transitions , with _ds doublets involved in four of seven cases . 
thus , diverse point mutations may account largely for the phenotypic heterogeneity of g6pd deficiency . 
increased high-density lipoprotein levels caused by a common cholesteryl-ester transfer protein gene mutation . 
background and methods . 
the plasma cholesteryl-ester transfer protein -lrb- cetp -rrb- catalyzes the transfer of cholesteryl esters from high-density lipoprotein -lrb- hdl -rrb- to other lipoproteins . 
we recently described a japanese family with increased hdl levels and cetp deficiency due to a splicing defect of the cetp gene . 
to assess the frequency and phenotype of this condition , we screened _num2 additional families with high hdl levels by means of a radioimmunoassay for cetp and dna analysis . 
results . 
we found the same cetp gene mutation in four families from three different regions of japan . 
analysis of restriction-fragment-length polymorphisms of the mutant cetp allele showed that all probands were homozygous for the identical haplotype . 
family members homozygous for cetp deficiency -lrb- n = _num2 -rrb- had moderate hypercholesterolemia -lrb- mean total cholesterol level -lsb- + / - sd -rsb- , _num1 . 
_num2 + / - _num1 . 
_num2 mmol per liter -rrb- , markedly increased levels of hdl cholesterol -lrb- _num1 . 
_num2 + / - _num1 . 
_num2 mmol per liter -rrb- and apolipoprotein a-i , and decreased levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol -lrb- _num1 . 
_num2 + / - _num1 . 
_num2 mmol per liter -rrb- and apolipoprotein b. members heterozygous for the deficiency -lrb- n = _num2 -rrb- , whose cetp levels were in the lower part of the normal range , had moderately increased levels of hdl cholesterol and apolipoprotein a-i and an increased ratio of hdl subclass _num1 to hdl subclass _num1 , as compared with unaffected family members -lrb- _num1 . 
_num1 + / - _num1 . 
_num1 vs. _num1 . 
_num1 + / - _num1 . 
_num1 -rrb- . 
cetp deficiency was not found in six unrelated subjects with elevated hdl cholesterol levels who were from different parts of the united states . 
conclusions . 
cetp deficiency appears to be a frequent cause of increased hdl levels in the population of japan , possibly because of a founder effect . 
the results that we observed in heterozygotes suggest that cetp normally plays a part in the regulation of levels of hdl subclass _num1 . 
there was no evidence of premature atherosclerosis in the families with cetp deficiency . 
in fact , the lipoprotein profile of persons with cetp deficiency is potentially antiatherogenic and may be associated with an increased life span . 
hereditary deficiency of the seventh component of complement and recurrent meningococcal infection : investigations of an irish family using a novel haemolytic screening assay for complement activity and c7 m / n allotyping . 
terminal complement component deficiency predisposes to meningococcal infection and is inherited in an autosomal co-dominant manner . 
an irish family is described , in which _num1 of _num1 brothers had recurrent meningococcal infection . 
a novel screening assay was used to investigate for terminal complement deficiency and the _num1 affected brothers were found to be completely deficient in the seventh component of complement -lrb- c7 -rrb- . 
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for c7 revealed lower than normal levels in the remaining brother and parents . 
c7 m / n protein polymorphism allotyping , used to investigate the segregation of the c7 deficiency genes , showed that the apparently complement sufficient brother was heterozygous c7 deficient and a carrier of one of the deficiency genes . 
complement screening should be carried out in any individual suffering recurrent meningococcal infection or infection with an uncommon meningococcal serogroup . 
identification of complement deficient patients allows the implementation of strategies to prevent recurrent infection . . 
mild and severe muscular dystrophy associated with deletions in xp21 of the human x chromosome . 
we have analysed over _num3 patients suffering from duchenne or becker muscular dystrophy -lrb- dmd or bmd -rrb- . 
deletions have been characterised which encompass either the pert87 -lrb- dxs164 -rrb- locus only , the xj1 . 
_num1 -lrb- dxs206 -rrb- and hip25 loci only , or all three loci . 
these loci have been shown to lie within the dmd region covering several hundred kilobases -lrb- kb -rrb- of dna . 
one mildly affected bmd patient possesses a deletion of at least _num3 kb including exons of the dmd gene . 
other patients with similar exon deletions , or smaller deletions , show the more severe phenotype typical of dmd . 
we conclude from these studies that the severity of the clinical phenotype can not be explained on the basis of the size of the deletion . 
we discuss this in the context of candidate gene sequences . 
meiotic segregation analysis of rb1 alleles in retinoblastoma pedigrees by use of single-sperm typing . 
in hereditary retinoblastoma , different epidemiological studies have indicated a preferential paternal transmission of mutant retinoblastoma alleles to offspring , suggesting the occurrence of a meiotic drive . 
to investigate this mechanism , we analyzed sperm samples from six individuals from five unrelated families affected with hereditary retinoblastoma . 
single-sperm typing techniques were performed for each sample by study of two informative short tandem repeats located either in or close to the retinoblastoma gene -lrb- rb1 -rrb- . 
the segregation probability of mutant rb1 alleles in sperm samples was assessed by use of the spermseg program , which includes experimental parameters , recombination fractions between the markers , and segregation parameters . 
a total of _num1 , _num3 single sperm from the six donors were analyzed . 
we detected a significant segregation distortion in the data as a whole -lrb- p = . 
_num4 -rrb- and a significant heterogeneity in the segregation rate across donors -lrb- . 
_num4 -rrb- . 
further analysis shows that this result can be explained by segregation distortion in favor of the normal allele in one donor only and that it does not provide evidence of a significant segregation distortion in the other donors . 
the segregation distortion favoring the mutant rb1 allele does not seem to occur during spermatogenesis , and , thus , meiotic drive may result either from various mechanisms , including a fertilization advantage or a better mobility in sperm bearing a mutant rb1 gene , or from the existence of a defectively imprinted gene located on the human x chromosome . 
functional differences of the pds gene product are associated with phenotypic variation in patients with pendred syndrome and non-syndromic hearing loss -lrb- dfnb4 -rrb- . 
the pds gene encodes a transmembrane protein , known as pendrin , which functions as a transporter of iodide and chloride . 
mutations in this gene are responsible for pendred syndrome and autosomal recessive non-syndromic hearing loss at the dfnb4 locus on chromosome 7q31 . 
a screen of _num2 individuals from the midwestern usa with non-syndromic hearing loss and dilated vestibular aqueducts identified three people -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- with pds mutations . 
to determine whether pds mutations in individuals with pendred syndrome differ functionally from pds mutations in individuals with non-syndromic hearing loss , we compared three common pendred syndrome allele variants -lrb- l236p , t416p and e384g -rrb- , with three pds mutations reported only in individuals with non-syndromic hearing loss -lrb- v480d , v653a and i490l / g497s -rrb- . 
the mutations associated with pendred syndrome have complete loss of pendrin-induced chloride and iodide transport , while alleles unique to people with dfnb4 are able to transport both iodide and chloride , albeit at a much lower level than wild-type pendrin . 
we hypothesize that this residual level of anion transport is sufficient to eliminate or postpone the onset of goiter in individuals with dfnb4 . 
we propose a model for pendrin function in the thyroid in which pendrin transports iodide across the apical membrane of the thyrocyte into the colloid space . . 
late-onset metachromatic leukodystrophy : molecular pathology in two siblings . 
we report on a new allele at the arylsulfatase a -lrb- arsa -rrb- locus causing late-onset metachromatic leukodystrophy -lrb- mld -rrb- . 
in that allele arginine84 , a residue that is highly conserved in the arylsulfatase gene family , is replaced by glutamine . 
in contrast to alleles that cause early-onset mld , the arginine84 to glutamine substitution is associated with some residual arsa activity . 
a comparison of genotypes , arsa activities , and clinical data on _num1 individuals carrying the allele of _num2 patients with mld examined , further validates the concept that different degrees of residual arsa activity are the basis of phenotypical variation in mld . . 
defective cd95 / apo -1 / fas signal complex formation in the human autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome , type ia . 
heterozygous mutations in the cd95 -lrb- apo-1 / fas -rrb- receptor occur in most individuals with autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome -lrb- alps -rrb- and dominantly interfere with apoptosis by an unknown mechanism . 
we show that local or global alterations in the structure of the cytoplasmic death domain from nine independent alps cd95 death-domain mutations result in a failure to bind the fadd / mort1 signaling protein . 
despite heterozygosity for the abnormal allele , lymphocytes from alps patients showed markedly decreased fadd association and a loss of caspase recruitment and activation after cd95 crosslinking . 
these data suggest that intracytoplasmic cd95 mutations in alps impair apoptosis chiefly by disrupting death-domain interactions with the signaling protein fadd / mort1 . . 
classical galactosemia and mutations at the galactose-1-phosphate uridyl transferase -lrb- galt -rrb- gene . 
classical galactosemia is caused by a deficiency in activity of the enzyme galactose-1-phosphate uridyl transferase -lrb- galt -rrb- , which , in turn , is caused by mutations at the galt gene . 
the disorder exhibits considerable allelic heterogeneity and , at the end of _num4 , more than _num3 different base changes were recorded in _num2 different populations and ethnic groups in _num2 countries worldwide . 
the mutations most frequently cited are q188r , k285n , s135l , and n314d . 
q188r is the most common mutation in european populations or in those predominantly of european descent . 
overall , it accounts for 60-70 % of mutant chromosomes , but there are significant differences in its relative frequency in individual populations . 
individuals homoallelic for q188r tend to have a severe phenotype and this is in keeping with the virtually complete loss of enzyme activity observed in in vitro expression systems . 
globally , k285n is rarer , but in many european populations it can be found on 25-40 % of mutant chromosomes . 
it is invariably associated with a severe phenotype . 
s135l is found almost exclusively in african americans . 
in vitro expression results are discrepant , but some individuals carrying s135l appear to exhibit galt activity in some tissues . 
duarte _num1 -lrb- or los angeles -rrb- and duarte _num1 -lrb- or duarte -rrb- variants carry the same amino acid substitution , n314d , even though d1 is associated with increased erythrocyte galt activity and d2 with reduced activity . 
n314d is in linkage disequilibrium with other base changes that differ on the d1 and d2 alleles . 
n314d does not impair galt activity in in vitro expression systems . 
however , there are differences in the abundance of galt protein in lymphoblastoid cells lines from d2 and d1 individuals . 
it is unclear whether the specific molecular changes that distinguish the d1 and d2 alleles account for the different activities . 
the considerable genetic heterogeneity documented to date undoubtedly contributes to the phenotypic heterogeneity that is observed in galactosemia . 
the additional effects of nonallelic variation and other constitutional factors on phenotypic variability remain to be elucidated . . 
x-linked retinoschisis with point mutations in the xlrs1 gene . 
background x-linked retinoschisis -lrb- xlrs -rrb- is a relatively rare vitreoretinal dystrophy that causes visual loss in young men . 
recently , a gene responsible for this disease , designated xlrs1 , was identified , and several deleterious gene mutations were reported . 
objective to analyze japanese patients clinically diagnosed as having xlrs formutational changes in the xlrs1 gene . 
methods ten patients with xlrs underwent full ophthalmologic examination , including slitlamp biomicroscopy and dilated funduscopy . 
genomic dna was isolated from leukocytes , and all exons of the xlrs1 gene were amplified by polymerase chain reaction and analyzed using a direct sequencing method . 
results point mutations in the xlrs1 gene were identified in all _num2 patients . 
the mutations were identical in each of _num1 pairs of brothers . 
six of the point mutations represented missense mutations , _num1 was a nonsense mutation , and _num1 was a frameshift mutation . 
five of the mutations are newly reported herein . 
conclusions the discovery of new point mutations in this study increases the available information regarding the spectrum of genetic abnormalities and clinical manifestations of xlrs . 
however , the limited data failed to reveal a correlation between mutation and disease phenotype . 
clinical relevance identification of mutations in the xlrs1 gene and expanded information on clinical manifestations will facilitate early diagnosis , appropriate early therapy , and genetic counseling regarding the prognosis of xlrs . . 
relationship among genotype , biochemical phenotype , and cognitive performance in females with phenylalanine hydroxylase deficiency : report from the maternal phenylketonuria collaborative study . 
objective to examine the relationship of phenylalanine hydroxylase -lrb- pah -rrb- genotypes to biochemical phenotype and cognitive development in maternal phenylketonuria -lrb- pku -rrb- . 
methodology pah gene mutations were examined in _num3 hyperphenylalaninemic females enrolled in the maternal pku collaborative study -lrb- mpkucs -rrb- . 
a total of _num2 different mutations were detected , and complete genotype was obtained in _num3 individuals . 
based on previous knowledge about mutation-phenotype associations , _num2 of the mutations could be assigned to one of four classes of severity -lrb- severe pku , moderate pku , mild pku , and mild hyperphenylalaninemia -lsb- mhp -rsb- -rrb- . 
then , _num3 mpkucs subjects were grouped according to the various combinations of mutation classifications . 
the sample sizes were large enough for statistical testing in four groups with at least one mutation that completely abolishes enzyme activity . 
these patients are considered functionally hemizygous . 
results the biochemical phenotype predicted from the genotype in functionally hemizygous patients was related significantly to the assigned phenylalanine level . 
cognitive performance -lrb- iq -rrb- was also significantly related to genotype . 
the iq of pah-deficient mothers with a severe pku mutation in combination with a mhp mutation or a mild pku mutation was _num2 and _num2 , respectively , whereas the iq of pku mothers with two severe pku mutations or with one severe and one moderate pku mutation was _num2 and _num2 , respectively . 
of the patients with pku , _num2 % had been treated during childhood . 
those who were untreated or treated late had lower than average iq scores for their group of mutation combinations . 
females with moderate or mild pku who were treated early and treated for > _num1 years showed iq scores _num2 points above average for their group . 
conclusions the reproductive outcome in maternal phenylketonuria is dependent on prenatal metabolic control and postnatal environmental circumstances . 
both factors depend on the intellectual resources of the mother with pku . 
the significant relationship among genotype , biochemical phenotype , and cognitive performance observed in the present study is of importance for the development of an optimal strategy for future treatment of females with pku who plan pregnancy . . 
uncoupling of hypomyelination and glial cell death by a mutation in the proteolipid protein gene . 
proteolipid protein -lrb- plp ; m -lrb- r -rrb- _num2 , _num3 -rrb- is a highly conserved major polytopic membrane protein in myelin but its cellular function remains obscure . 
neurological mutant mice can often provide model systems for human genetic disorders . 
mutations of the x-chromosome-linked plp gene are lethal , identified first in the jimpy mouse and subsequently in patients with pelizaeus-merzbacher disease . 
the unexplained phenotype of these mutations includes degeneration and premature cell death of oligodendrocytes with associated hypomyelination . 
here we show that a new mouse mutant rumpshaker is defined by the amino-acid substitution ile-to-thr at residue _num3 in a membrane-embedded domain of plp . 
surprisingly , rumpshaker mice , although myelin-deficient , have normal longevity and a full complement of morphologically normal oligodendrocytes . 
hypomyelination can thus be genetically separated from the plp-dependent oligodendrocyte degeneration . 
we suggest that plp has a vital function in glial cell development , distinct from its later role in myelin assembly , and that this dichotomy of action may explain the clinical spectrum of pelizaeus-merzbacher disease . . 
mutational analysis of the hgo gene in finnish alkaptonuria patients . 
alkaptonuria -lrb- aku -rrb- , the prototypic inborn error of metabolism , has recently been shown to be caused by loss of function mutations in the homogentisate-1 , 2-dioxygenase gene -lrb- hgo -rrb- . 
so far _num2 mutations have been characterised in aku patients of different ethnic origin . 
we describe three novel mutations -lrb- r58fs , r330s , and h371r -rrb- and one common aku mutation -lrb- m368v -rrb- , detected by mutational and polymorphism analysis of the hgo gene in five finnish aku pedigrees . 
the three novel aku mutations are most likely specific for the finnish population and have originated recently . . 
putative x-linked adrenoleukodystrophy gene shares unexpected homology with abc transporters . 
adrenoleukodystrophy -lrb- ald -rrb- is an x-linked disease affecting 1 / 20 , _num3 males either as cerebral ald in childhood or as adrenomyeloneuropathy -lrb- amn -rrb- in adults . 
childhood ald is the more severe form , with onset of neurological symptoms between 5-12 years of age . 
central nervous system demyelination progresses rapidly and death occurs within a few years . 
amn is a milder form of the disease with onset at 15-30 years of age and a more progressive course . 
adrenal insufficiency -lrb- addisons disease -rrb- may remain the only clinical manifestation of ald . 
the principal biochemical abnormality of ald is the accumulation of very-long-chain fatty acids -lrb- vlcfa -rrb- because of impaired beta-oxidation in peroxisomes . 
the normal oxidation of vlcfa-coa in patients fibroblasts suggested that the gene coding for the vlcfa-coa synthetase could be a candidate gene for ald . 
here we use positional cloning to identify a gene partially deleted in _num1 of _num2 independent patients with ald . 
in familial cases , the deletions segregated with the disease . 
an identical deletion was detected in two brothers presenting with different clinical ald phenotypes . 
candidate exons were identified by computer analysis of genomic sequences and used to isolate complementary dnas by exon connection and screening of cdna libraries . 
the deduced protein sequence shows significant sequence identity to a peroxisomal membrane protein of m -lrb- r -rrb- 70k that is involved in peroxisome biogenesis and belongs to the atp-binding cassette superfamily of transporters . . 
cardiac na -lrb- + -rrb- channel dysfunction in brugada syndrome is aggravated by beta -lrb- _num1 -rrb- - subunit . 
background mutations in the gene encoding the human cardiac na -lrb- + -rrb- channel alpha-subunit -lrb- hh1 -rrb- are responsible for chromosome 3-linked congenital long-qt syndrome -lrb- lqt3 -rrb- and idiopathic ventricular fibrillation -lrb- ivf -rrb- . 
an auxiliary beta -lrb- _num1 -rrb- - subunit , widely expressed in excitable tissues , shifts the voltage dependence of steady-state inactivation toward more negative potentials and restores normal gating kinetics of brain and skeletal muscle na -lrb- + -rrb- channels expressed in xenopus oocytes but has little if any functional effect on the cardiac isoform . 
here , we characterize the altered effects of a human beta -lrb- _num1 -rrb- - subunit -lrb- hbeta -lrb- _num1 -rrb- -rrb- on the heterologously expressed hh1 mutation -lrb- t1620m -rrb- previously associated with ivf . 
methods and results when expressed alone in xenopus oocytes , t1620m exhibited no persistent currents , in contrast to the lqt3 mutant channels , but the midpoint of steady-state inactivation -lrb- v -lrb- 1 / 2 -rrb- -rrb- was significantly shifted toward more positive potentials than for wild-type hh1 . 
coexpression of hbeta -lrb- _num1 -rrb- did not significantly alter current decay or recovery from inactivation of wild-type hh1 ; however , it further shifted the v -lrb- 1 / 2 -rrb- and accelerated the recovery from inactivation of t1620m . 
oocyte macropatch analysis revealed that the activation kinetics of t1620m were normal . 
conclusions it is suggested that coexpression of hbeta -lrb- _num1 -rrb- exposes a more severe functional defect that results in a greater overlap in the relationship between channel inactivation and activation -lrb- window current -rrb- in t1620m , which is proposed to be a potential pathophysiological mechanism of ivf in vivo . 
one possible explanation for our finding is an altered alpha - / beta -lrb- _num1 -rrb- - subunit association in the mutant . . 
autosomal recessive familial neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus with continued secretion of mutant weakly active vasopressin . 
familial neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus is an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by post-natal development of arginine vasopressin -lrb- avp -rrb- deficiency due to mutations in the avp gene . 
all published mutations affect the signal peptide or the neurophysin-ii carrier protein and are presumed to interfere with processing of the preprohormone , leading to neuronal damage . 
we studied an unusual palestinian family consisting of asymptomatic first cousin parents and three children affected with neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus , suggesting autosomal recessive inheritance . 
all three affected children were homozygous and the parents heterozygous for a single novel mutation -lrb- _an - > t -rrb- in exon _num1 , replacing pro7 of mature avp with leu -lrb- leu-avp -rrb- . 
leu-avp was a weak agonist with approximately 30-fold reduced binding to the human v2 receptor . 
measured by radioimmunoassay with a synthetic leu-avp standard , serum leu-avp levels were elevated in all three children and further increased during water deprivation to as high as _num2 times normal . 
the youngest child -lrb- _num1 years old -rrb- was only mildly affected but had leu-avp levels similar to her severely affected 8-year-old brother , suggesting that unknown mechanisms may partially compensate for a deficiency of active avp in very young children . . 
autosomal dominant aniridia linked to the chromosome 11p13 markers catalase and d11s151 in a large dutch family . 
in a large pedigree with autosomal dominant aniridia , we found close linkage between the aniridia locus an2 and the markers catalase -lrb- _ds -rrb- -lrb- zeta = _num1 . 
_num2 at theta = _num1 . 
_num2 -rrb- and d11s151 -lrb- zeta = _num1 . 
_num2 at theta = _num1 . 
_num2 -rrb- flanking the an2 locus on 11p13 . 
positive lod scores were also obtained for the 11p13 -- 11p14 markers d11s16 and fshb with the linkage group cat / an2 / d11s151 . 
we conclude that the autosomal dominant aniridia in this family is due to a mutation at the an2 locus on 11p13 . 
we have excluded linkage -lrb- zeta less than -2 at theta less than _num1 . 
_num2 -rrb- between the aniridia and the chromosome 2p25 marker d2s1 -lrb- linked to acp1 -rrb- . 
knobloch syndrome involving midline scalp defect of the frontal region . 
we report on a 4-year-old boy with knobloch syndrome . 
he has vitreoretinal degeneration , high myopia , cataract , telecanthus , hypertelorism , and a high-arched palate . 
he also has a defect of the anterior midline scalp with involvement of the frontal bone as documented by a computed tomography -lrb- _ds -rrb- scan . 
the brain was normal on _ds scan and magnetic resonance imaging . 
we present a review of the _num2 published cases with this syndrome . 
our patient illustrates the importance of investigating for underlying ocular and central nervous system pathology whenever midline scalp defects are present . . 
pendred syndrome : phenotypic variability in two families carrying the same pds missense mutation . 
pendred syndrome comprises congenital sensorineural hearing loss , thyroid goiter , and positive perchlorate discharge test . 
recently , this autosomal recessive disorder was shown to be caused by mutations in the pds gene , which encodes an anion transporter called pendrin . 
molecular analysis of the pds gene was performed in two consanguineous large families from southern tunisia comprising a total of _num2 individuals affected with profound congenital deafness ; the same missense mutation , l445w , was identified in all affected individuals . 
a widened vestibular aqueduct was found in all patients who underwent computed tomography -lrb- _ds -rrb- scan exploration of the inner ear . 
in contrast , goiter was present in only _num2 affected individuals , who interestingly had a normal result of the perchlorate discharge test whenever performed . 
the present results question the sensitivity of the perchlorate test for the diagnosis of pendred syndrome and support the use of a molecular analysis of the pds gene in the assessment of individuals with severe to profound congenital hearing loss associated with inner ear morphological anomaly even in the absence of a thyroid goiter . . 
the type of somatic mutation at apc in familial adenomatous polyposis is determined by the site of the germline mutation : a new facet to knudson 's ` two-hit ' hypothesis . 
apc is often cited as a prime example of a tumor suppressor gene . 
truncating germline and somatic mutations -lrb- or , infrequently , allelic loss -rrb- occur in tumors in fap -lrb- familial adenomatous polyposis -rrb- . 
most sporadic colorectal cancers also have two apc mutations . 
clues from attenuated polyposis , missense germline variants with mild disease and the somatic mutation cluster region -lrb- codons _num1 , 250-1 , _num3 -rrb- indicate , however , that apc mutations might not result in simple loss of protein function . 
we have found that fap patients with germline apc mutations within a small region -lrb- codons _num1 , 194-1 , _num3 at most -rrb- mainly show allelic loss in their colorectal adenomas , in contrast to other fap patients , whose second hits tend to occur by truncating mutations in the mutation cluster region . 
our results indicate that different apc mutations provide cells with different selective advantages , with mutations close to codon _num1 , _num3 providing the greatest advantage . 
allelic loss is selected strongly in cells with one mutation near codon _num1 , _num3 . 
a different germline-somatic apc mutation association exists in fap desmoids . 
apc is not , therefore , a classical tumor suppressor . 
our findings also indicate a new mechanism for disease severity if a broader spectrum of mutations is selected in tumors , the somatic mutation rate is effectively higher and more tumors grow . . 
purification of human very-long-chain acyl-coenzyme a dehydrogenase and characterization of its deficiency in seven patients . 
mitochondrial very-long-chain acyl-coenzyme a dehydrogenase -lrb- vlcad -rrb- was purified from human liver . 
the molecular masses of the native enzyme and the subunit were estimated to be _num3 and _num2 kd , respectively . 
the enzyme was found to catalyze the major part of mitochondrial palmitoylcoenzyme a dehydrogenation in liver , heart , skeletal muscle , and skin fibroblasts -lrb- 89-97 , 86-99 , 96-99 , and 78-87 % , respectively -rrb- . 
skin fibroblasts from _num2 patients suspected of having a disorder of mitochondrial beta-oxidation were analyzed for vlcad protein using immunoblotting , and _num1 of them contained undetectable or trace levels of the enzyme . 
the seven deficient fibroblast lines were characterized by measuring acyl-coenzyme a dehydrogenation activities , overall palmitic acid oxidation , and vlcad protein synthesis using pulse-chase , further confirming the diagnosis of vlcad deficiency . 
these results suggested the heterogenous nature of the mutations causing the deficiency in the seven patients . 
clinically , all patients with vlcad deficiency exhibited cardiac disease . 
at least four of them presented with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy . 
this frequency -lrb- > _num2 % -rrb- was much higher than that observed in patients with other disorders of mitochondrial long-chain fatty acid oxidation that may be accompanied by cardiac disease in infants . . 
a germ line mutation within the coding sequence for the putative 5-phosphoribosyl-1-pyrophosphate binding site of hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase -lrb- hprt -rrb- in a lesch-nyhan patient : missense mutations within a functionally important region probably cause disease . 
lesch-nyhan syndrome caused by a complete deficiency of hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyltransferase -lrb- hprt -rrb- is the result of a heterogeneous group of germ line mutations . 
identification of each mutant gene provides valuable information as to the type of mutation that occurs spontaneously . 
we report here a newly identified hprt mutation in a japanese patient with lesch-nyhan syndrome . 
this gene , designated hprt tokyo , had a single nucleotide change from g to a , as identified by sequencing cdna amplified by the polymerase chain reaction . 
allele specific oligonucleotide hybridization analysis using amplified genomic dna showed that the mutant gene was transmitted from the maternal germ line . 
this mutation would lead to an amino acid substitution of asp for gly at the amino acid position _num3 located within the putative 5-phosphoribosyl-1-pyrophosphate -lrb- prpp -rrb- binding region . 
missense mutations in human hprt deficient patients thus far reported tend to accumulate in this functionally active region . 
however , a comparison of the data suggested that both missense and synonymous mutations can occur at any coding sequence of the human germ line hprt gene , but that a limited percentage of all the missense mutations cause disease . 
the probability that a mutation will cause disease tends to be higher when the missense mutation is within a functionally important sequence . . 
in vitro and in vivo correlations for i65t and m1v mutations at the phenylalanine hydroxylase locus . 
mutations at the phenylalanine hydroxylase -lrb- pah -rrb- locus are the major cause of hyperphenylalaninemia . 
we have previously described four mutations -lrb- m1v , ivs12nt1 , r408w , and s349p -rrb- at the pah locus in french canadians with ancestry in eastern quebec . 
here we report -lrb- _num1 -rrb- identification of another mutation , on a haplotype _num1 chromosome , which converts codon _num2 from isoleucine -lrb- _ds -rrb- to threonine -lrb- _ds -rrb- , -lrb- _num1 -rrb- expression analysis of the i65t mutation in cos cells demonstrating _num2 % loss of both immunoreactive protein and enzyme activity , and -lrb- _num1 -rrb- expression analysis of the most prevalent pku allele -lrb- m1v -rrb- in eastern quebec , showing nondetectable levels of pah protein and activity , a finding compatible with a mutation in the translation initiation codon . 
homozygosity for m1v and codominant inheritance of i65t / r408w were both associated with classical phenylketonuria . . 
experimental hemochromatosis due to mhc class i hfe deficiency : immune status and iron metabolism . 
the puzzling linkage between genetic hemochromatosis and histocompatibility loci became even more so when the gene involved , hfe , was identified . 
indeed , within the well defined , mainly peptide-binding , mhc class i family of molecules , hfe seems to perform an unusual yet essential function . 
as yet , our understanding of hfe function in iron homeostasis is only partial ; an even more open question is its possible role in the immune system . 
to advance on both of these avenues , we report the deletion of hfe alpha1 and alpha2 putative ligand binding domains in vivo . 
hfe-deficient animals were analyzed for a comprehensive set of metabolic and immune parameters . 
faithfully mimicking human hemochromatosis , mice homozygous for this deletion develop iron overload , characterized by a higher plasma iron content and a raised transferrin saturation as well as an elevated hepatic iron load . 
the primary defect could , indeed , be traced to an augmented duodenal iron absorption . 
in parallel , measurement of the gut mucosal iron content as well as iron regulatory proteins allows a more informed evaluation of various hypotheses regarding the precise role of hfe in iron homeostasis . 
finally , an extensive phenotyping of primary and secondary lymphoid organs including the gut provides no compelling evidence for an obvious immune-linked function for hfe . . 
-lsb- genetic heterogeneity of g6pd deficiency : mutant alleles of g6pd in the shekii district of azerbaijan -rsb- examination on g6pd deficiency in _num3 patients of shekii district hospital -lrb- azerbaijan -rrb- revealed _num2 hemi - , _num1 homo - and _num1 heterozygotic carriers of the defect . 
gd - frequency , calculated from the data obtained -lrb- _num1 . 
_num1 % -rrb- , may be compared to neighbouring regions frequencies -lrb- 6-30 % -rrb- . 
carriers of g6pd deficiency are residents of _num2 villages located in alasani-aphtalan valley , highly endemic with malaria in the past ; nearly all marriages are endogamic . 
physico-chemical and kinetic study of _num2 mutant forms of g6pd , according to who program , led to identification of _num1 variants of the ii class -lrb- shekii , bideiz , shirin-bulakh , okhut i and zakataly -rrb- and _num1 variants of the iii class -lrb- okhut ii and martinique-like -rrb- . 
resemblance of the majority of variants in electrophoretic mobility and the level of erythrocyte enzyme activity permit to suggest the existence of a common parental mutant g6pd allele distributed in this area . 
-lsb- gd - allele distribution patterns in azerbaijan . 
iii . 
the identification of mutant forms of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase -rsb- in _num2 families with g6pd deficiency living in _num1 settlements of shekii district of azerbaijan _num2 g6pd variants of ii and iii classes differing by kinetic properties were identified according who program . 
_num1 of them are characterized with the same electrophoretic mobility . 
comparison of g6pd spectra in two subpopulations and in a mixed group permits to make a conclusion about existence of common and rare g6pd alleles in examined population . 
they distribute by gene drift supported by natural selection . 
among _num1 samples of g6pd with normal and increased activity two new variants of iv class -- nukha and bash-kungut -- were found . . 
determination of carrier status for the wiskott-aldrich syndrome by flow cytometric analysis of wiskott-aldrich syndrome protein expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells . 
the wiskott-aldrich syndrome -lrb- was -rrb- is caused by defects in the was protein -lrb- wasp -rrb- gene on the x chromosome . 
previous study disclosed that flow cytometric analysis of intracellular wasp expression -lrb- fcm-wasp analysis -rrb- in lymphocytes was useful for the diagnosis of was patients . 
lymphocytes from all was patients showed waspdim instead of waspbright . 
here we report that fcm-wasp analysis in monocytes could be a useful tool for the was carrier diagnosis . 
monocytes from all nine was carriers showed varied population of waspdim together with waspbright . 
none of control individuals possessed the waspdim population . 
in contrast , lymphocytes from all the carriers except two lacked the waspdim population . 
the difference of the waspdim population in monocytes and lymphocytes observed in was carriers suggests that wasp plays a more critical role in the development of lymphocytes than in that of monocytes . 
the present studies suggest that a skewed x-chromosomal inactivation pattern observed in was carrier peripheral blood cells is not fixed at the hemopoietic stem cell level but progresses after the lineage commitment . . 
linkage of dna markers at xq28 to adrenoleukodystrophy and adrenomyeloneuropathy present within the same family . 
we present a large kindred that contained patients with either adrenoleukodystrophy -lrb- ald -rrb- or adrenomyeloneuropathy -lrb- amn -rrb- . 
the pedigree clearly supported the x-linked mode of inheritance of the nonneonatal form of ald / amn . 
analysis with dna markers at xq28 suggested segregation of both ald and amn with an identical haplotype . 
this indicated that nonneonatal ald and amn are caused by a mutation in the same gene at xq28 . 
it showed , furthermore , that phenotypic differences between ald and amn are not necessarily the consequence of allelic heterogeneity due to different mutations within the same gene . 
the maximal lod score for linkage of the ald / amn gene and the multiallelic anonymous dna marker at dxs52 was _num1 . 
_num1 at a recombination fraction of _num1 . 
_num2 . 
this made a prenatal or presymptomatic diagnosis and heterozygote detection by dna analysis with this marker reliable . 
further investigation of the hexa gene intron _num1 donor splice site mutation frequently found in non-jewish tay-sachs disease patients from the british isles . 
in a previous study we found that a tay-sachs disease -lrb- tsd -rrb- causing mutation in the intron _num1 donor splice site of the hexa gene occurs at high frequency in non-jewish patients and carriers from the british isles . 
it was found more frequently in subjects of irish , scottish , and welsh origin compared with english origin -lrb- _num2 % and _num2 % respectively -rrb- . 
we have now tested , in a blind study , _num2 american tsd carriers and _num2 non-carriers who have british ancestry for the intron _num1 splice site mutation . 
six of the carriers and none of the controls were positive for the mutation . 
all six had irish ancestry , compared with nine of the _num2 other -lrb- intron _num1 mutation negative -rrb- tsd carriers -lrb- p < _num1 . 
_num2 -rrb- . 
these results confirm the previously found high frequency of the intron _num1 mutation in non-jewish tsd families of british isles , particularly irish , origin , and reinforce the need to screen such families for this mutation . 
the murine homologues of the huntington disease gene -lrb- hdh -rrb- and the alpha-adducin gene -lrb- add1 -rrb- map to mouse chromosome _num1 within a region of conserved synteny with human chromosome 4p16 .3 . 
huntington disease -lrb- hd -rrb- is a severe autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disorder associated with a novel gene -lrb- it15 -rrb- . 
recently , we reported the cloning of hdh , the murine homologue of it15 . 
here , using an interspecific backcross , we have mapped both hdh and the mouse homologue of human alpha-adducin -lrb- add1 -rrb- , a membrane-associated cytoskeletal protein gene . 
both of these genes map in the same position on mouse chromosome _num1 in a region associated with ancestral chromosomal rearrangements and show no recombination with d5h4s43 , d5h4s115 , and d5h4s62 , the murine homologues of d4s43 , d4s115 , and d4s62 , respectively . 
further mapping studies of humans , mice , and other mammalian species should reveal the nature of the rearrangements affecting this chromosomal segment during mammalian evolution . . 
linkage analysis of the apolipoprotein c2 gene and myotonic dystrophy on human chromosome _num2 reveals linkage disequilibrium in a french-canadian population . 
the gene for human apolipoprotein c2 -lrb- apoc2 -rrb- , situated on the proximal long arm of chromosome _num2 , is closely linked to the gene for the most common form of adult muscular dystrophy , myotonic dystrophy -lrb- dm -rrb- . 
six apoc2 rflps -lrb- taqi , bgli , bani , bamhi , ncoi , and avaii -rrb- have been identified to date . 
we have conducted a comprehensive dm linkage study utilizing all six rflps and involving _num2 families and _num3 individuals . 
the most informative rflps are , in descending order , ncoi -lrb- lod = _num1 . 
_num2 , theta = _num1 . 
_num2 -rrb- , bgli -lrb- lod = _num1 . 
_num2 , theta = _num1 . 
_num2 -rrb- , avaii -lrb- lod = _num1 . 
_num2 , theta = _num1 . 
_num2 -rrb- , bani -lrb- lod = _num1 . 
_num2 , theta = _num1 . 
_num2 -rrb- , taqi -lrb- lod = _num1 . 
_num2 , theta = _num1 . 
_num2 -rrb- , and bamhi -lrb- lod = _num1 . 
_num2 , theta = _num1 . 
_num2 -rrb- . 
a substantial increase in the lod scores over those seen with the individual rflps was obtained when the linkage of the entire apoc2 haplotype -lrb- composed of the six rflps -rrb- was studied -lrb- lod = _num2 . 
_num2 , theta = _num1 . 
_num2 -rrb- . 
we have observed significant inter-apoc2 rflp linkage disequilibrium . 
consequently , the three most informative rflps have been found to be bani , taqi , and either bgli , avaii , or ncoi polymorphisms . 
we also demonstrate linkage disequilibrium between dm and apoc2 in our french-canadian population -lrb- standardized disequilibrium constant phi = . 
_num2 , chi _num1 = _num1 . 
_num2 , df = _num1 , p less than _num1 . 
_num2 -rrb- . 
this represents the first evidence of linkage disequilibrium between apoc2 and the dm locus . 
a retrospective anonymous pilot study in screening newborns for hfe mutations in scandinavian populations . 
we have retrospectively analyzed _num3 random anonymized dried blood spot -lrb- dbs -rrb- samples from neonatal screening programs in scandinavia for mutations in hfe , the candidate gene for hemochromatosis . 
we have found c282y allele frequencies of _num1 . 
_num1 % -lrb- + _num1 . 
_num1 % -rrb- -lrb- -1 . 
_num1 % -rrb- in greenland , _num1 . 
_num1 % + / -1 . 
_num1 % in iceland , _num1 . 
_num1 % + / -2 . 
_num1 % in the faeroe islands , and _num1 . 
_num1 % + / -2 . 
_num1 % in denmark . 
the high prevalence of hfe mutations in denmark suggests that population screening for the c282y mutation could be highly advantageous in terms of preventive health care . 
long-term follow-up evaluation of c282y homozygotes and h63d / c282y compound heterozygotes will give an indication of the penetrance of the mutations . 
hereditary tp53 codon _num3 and somatic p16ink4a codon _num2 mutations in a li-fraumeni syndrome family . 
li-fraumeni syndrome is an autosomal dominant disorder that is characterized by various types of cancer in childhood and adult cases . 
although hereditary tp53 mutation is very rare in different human cancers , it has been frequently reported in li-fraumeni syndrome . 
on the other hand , hereditary mutations of tp57kip2 , p15ink4b , and p16ink4a , which affect the cell cycle similar to tp53 , were observed in some types of cancer . 
in a turkish family with the diagnosis of li-fraumeni syndrome , we analyzed the mutation pattern of tp53 , p57kip2 , p15ink4b , and p16ink4a in the peripheral blood , and loss of heterozygosity -lrb- homo / hemizygous deletion -rrb- pattern of tp53 and p15ink4b / p16ink4a in two tumor tissues . 
the propositus had a seminoma , his daughter a medulloblastoma , and one of his healthy cousins , a tp53 codon _num3 missense point mutation -lrb- _ds -- > _ds ; lys -- > ile -rrb- in the peripheral blood cells . 
tumor tissue obtained from the propositus with the seminoma revealed loss of heterozygosity in the tp53 gene . 
in the analyses of tumor tissues from the propositus and his daughter , a p16ink4a codon _num2 missense point mutation -lrb- _ds -- > _ds ; ala -- > glu -rrb- was observed with the hereditary tp53 mutation . 
p16ink4a codon _num2 mutation observed in our family is a novel mutation in li-fraumeni syndrome . 
no other gene alteration in tp53 , p57kip2 , p15ink4b , and p16ink4a was observed . 
existence of the p16ink4a mutation and the hereditary tp53 mutation with or without loss of heterozygosity in the tp53 gene -lrb- seminoma / medulloblastoma -rrb- may be evidence for a common mechanism involved in tumorogenesis . 
the gene alterations in tp53 and p16ink4a genes may be used as tumor markers in our family . . 
an amino-acid substitution involved in phenylketonuria is in linkage disequilibrium with dna haplotype _num1 . 
phenylketonuria -lrb- pku -rrb- is an autosomal recessive human genetic disorder caused by a deficiency of hepatic phenylalanine hydroxylase -lrb- pah , phenylalanine 4-monooxygenase , ec _num1 . 
_num2 . 
_num2 . 
_num1 -rrb- . 
pku is a common inborn error of amino-acid metabolism in caucasian populations and approximately _num1 in _num2 individuals are carriers of a pku allele . 
to define the molecular basis of pku , we characterized twelve restriction fragment-length polymorphism -lrb- rflp -rrb- haplotypes of the pah locus in the northern european population and observed that _num2 % of the pku alleles in this population are confined to four common rflp haplotypes . 
we have recently reported a splicing mutation in the pah gene that is associated with rflp haplotype _num1 which is present at about _num2 % of mutant alleles . 
we now report the molecular lesion associated with the rflp haplotype _num1 mutant allele . 
this defect is caused by a c-to-t transition in exon _num2 resulting in an amino-acid substitution -lrb- arg to trp -rrb- at residue _num3 of pah . 
direct hybridization analysis of the point mutation using a specific oligonucleotide probe demonstrated that this mutation is also in linkage disequilibrium with rflp haplotype _num1 alleles that make up about _num2 % of mutant pah genes the effects of dystrophin gene mutations on the erg in mice and humans . 
purpose . 
the authors earlier findings of a negative electroretinogram -lrb- erg -rrb- in a boy with duchenne muscular dystrophy -lrb- dmd -rrb- led them to investigate dystrophin gene deletions and ergs in five boys with dmd . 
the authors wanted to determined whether there were similar erg findings in an animal model for dmd , the mdx mouse . 
methods . 
ganzfeld ergs were recorded in five boys with dmd after a complete ophthalmic examination . 
the dystrophin gene was analyzed by southern blot hybridization . 
ergs were recorded in anesthetized mdx and control mice with a modified grass photostimulator -lrb- grass instrument company , quincy , ma -rrb- . 
results . 
ophthalmic examinations in all five boys had normal findings , yet an abnormal negative erg was recorded for each subject . 
the subjects gene deletions were variable , ranging from large deletions to no detectable deletions . 
the ergs of the mdx mice were normal and did not differ significantly from those of the control mice . 
conclusions . 
the authors believe the unique erg recorded for the human subjects is a manifestation of dmd associated with defects at the dystrophin gene locus and represents a new clinical entity . 
the erg of the mdx mouse may be spared for several reasons , including milder effects of the mouse gene defect , differences in muscle and retinal gene product , or species differences in the biochemical role of dystrophin . 
the erg shows promise of becoming a noninvasive diagnostic tool for dmd and its milder allelic forms . . 
eight novel inactivating germ line mutations at the apc gene identified by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis . 
familial adenomatous polyposis -lrb- fap -rrb- is a dominantly inherited condition predisposing to colorectal cancer . 
the recent isolation of the responsible gene -lrb- adenomatous polyposis coli or apc -rrb- has facilitated the search for germ line mutations in affected individuals . 
previous authors have used the rnase protection assay and the single-strand conformation polymorphisms procedure to screen for mutations . 
in this study we used denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis -lrb- dgge -rrb- . 
dgge analysis of _num2 apc exons -lrb- _num1 , _num1 , _num1 , _num1 , _num1 , _num2 , _num2 , _num2 , _num2 , and part of _num2 -rrb- in _num2 unrelated dutch fap patients has led to the identification of eight novel germ line mutations resulting in stop codons or frameshifts . 
the results reported here indicate that -lrb- _num1 -rrb- familial adenomatous polyposis is caused by an extremely heterogeneous spectrum of point mutations ; -lrb- _num1 -rrb- all the mutations found in this study are chain terminating ; and -lrb- _num1 -rrb- dgge represents a rapid and sensitive technique for the detection of mutations in the unusually large apc gene . 
an extension of the dgge analysis to the entire coding region in a sufficient number of clinically well-characterized , unrelated patients will facilitate the establishment of genotype-phenotype correlations . 
on the other hand , the occurrence of an extremely heterogeneous spectrum of mutations spread throughout the entire length of the large apc gene among the fap patients indicates that this approach may not be useful as a rapid presymptomatic diagnostic procedure in a routine laboratory . 
nevertheless , the above dgge approach has incidentally led to the identification of a common polymorphism in exon _num2 . 
such intragenic polymorphisms offer a practical approach to a more rapid procedure for presymptomatic diagnosis of fap by linkage analysis in informative families . . 
novel mutations in xlrs1 causing retinoschisis , including first evidence of putative leader sequence change . 
juvenile retinoschisis is an x-linked recessive disease caused by mutations in the xlrs1 gene . 
we screened _num2 new unrelated patients and families for xlrs1 mutations in addition to previously reported mutations for _num2 of our families -lrb- retinoschisis consortium , hum mol genet _num4 ; _num1 1185-1192 -rrb- . 
twenty-three different mutations including _num2 novel ones were identified in _num2 patients . 
mutations identified in this study include _num2 missense mutations , two nonsense mutations , one intragenic deletion , four microdeletions , one insertion , and one intronic sequence substitution that is likely to result in a splice site defect . 
two novel mutations , c. 38t -- > c -lrb- l13p -rrb- and c. 667t -- > c -lrb- c223r -rrb- , respectively , present the first genetic evidence for the functional significance of the putative leader peptide sequence and for the functional significance at the carboxyl terminal of the xlrs1 protein beyond the discoidin domain . 
mutations in _num2 of the families were localized to exons 4-6 , emphasizing the critical functional significance of the discoidin domain of the xlrs1 protein clinical use of dna markers linked to the gene for duchenne muscular dystrophy . 
seventy families with duchenne muscular dystrophy -lrb- dmd -rrb- known to the institute of child health fall into three categories with respect to potential linkage analysis with the x chromosome dna markers rc8 and l1 . 
_num2 that bridge the dmd gene . 
families in which there is at least one obligatory female heterozygote -lrb- n = _num2 -rrb- . 
here prediction and exclusion of dmd gene transmission may be possible , the accuracy being dependent on the closeness of the linkage of the dna marker -lrb- s -rrb- to the dmd gene ; an illustrative case is reported . 
families in which there is a single affected boy , who also has one or more healthy brothers -lrb- n = _num2 -rrb- . 
given an informative restriction fragment length polymorphism -lrb- rflp -rrb- , the probability that the boy represents a new mutation can be reassessed ; it is also possible to exclude the dmd gene in a sister . 
families with a single affected boy with no brother -lrb- n = _num2 -rrb- . 
here exclusion of the dmd gene in a sister may be possible . 
only in one family was there no possibility of useful linkage analysis . 
the linkage analysis required is described , and the need to check dmd families for informative rflps is stressed . 
molecular characterization of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase -lrb- g6pd -rrb- deficiency in patients of chinese descent and identification of new base substitutions in the human g6pd gene . 
the underlying dna changes associated with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase -lrb- g6pd -rrb- -deficient asians have not been extensively investigated . 
to fill this gap , we sequenced the g6pd gene of _num2 g6pd-deficient chinese whose g6pd was well characterized biochemically . 
dna samples were obtained from peripheral blood of these individuals for sequencing using a direct polymerase chain reaction -lrb- pcr -rrb- sequencing procedure . 
from these _num2 samples , we have identified five different types of nucleotide substitutions in the g6pd gene at cdna _num4 from g to a -lrb- arg to his -rrb- ; at cdna _num4 from g to t -lrb- arg to leu -rrb- ; at cdna _num4 from c to t -lrb- leu to phe -rrb- ; at cdna _num3 from g to t -lrb- gly to val -rrb- ; at cdna _num2 from a to g -lrb- his to arg -rrb- . 
these five nucleotide substitutions account for over _num2 % of our _num2 g6pd-deficient samples and these substitutions have not been reported in non-asians . 
the substitutions found at cdna _num3 and cdna _num4 are new findings . 
the substitutions at cdna _num4 and _num4 account for over _num2 % of the _num2 samples examined indicating a high prevalence of these two alleles among g6pd-deficient chinese . 
our findings add support to the notion that diverse point mutations may account largely for much of the phenotypic heterogeneity of g6pd deficiency . . 
norrie disease gene : characterization of deletions and possible function . 
positional cloning experiments have resulted recently in the isolation of a candidate gene for norrie disease -lrb- pseudoglioma ; ndp -rrb- , a severe x-linked neurodevelopmental disorder . 
here we report the isolation and analysis of human genomic dna clones encompassing the ndp gene . 
the gene spans _num2 kb and consists of _num1 exons , the first of which is entirely contained within the _num1 untranslated region . 
detailed analysis of genomic deletions in norrie patients shows that they are heterogeneous , both in size and in position . 
by pcr analysis , we found that expression of the ndp gene was not confined to the eye or to the brain . 
an extensive dna and protein sequence comparison between the human ndp gene and related genes from the database revealed homology with cysteine-rich protein-binding domains of immediate -- early genes implicated in the regulation of cell proliferation . 
we propose that ndp is a molecule related in function to these genes and may be involved in a pathway that regulates neural cell differentiation and proliferation . . 
prenatal diagnosis of wolman disease . 
two pregnancies at risk for wolman disease were monitored by assay and electrophoresis of acid lipase in cultured amniotic-fluid cells . 
cells from patient _num1 had _num1 % of control levels of acid lipase , using 14c-triolein as substrate ; however , when artificial substrates -lrb- esters of 4-methylumbelliferone and p-nitrophenol -rrb- were used to measure acid lipase , these cells had _num2 % of control levels . 
electrophoresis of cell extracts revealed the absence of the a form of acid lipase , consistent with the diagnosis of wolman disease . 
analysis of fetal tissues following prostaglandin termination of this pregnancy confirmed the diagnosis . 
assay of fetal-skin fibroblasts with 14c-triolein , as well as with artificial substrates , showed marked deficiency of acid lipase activity . 
electrophoresis of fetal-tissue extracts also demonstrated the absence of the a form of acid lipase . 
amniotic-fluid cells from patient _num1 showed normal levels of acid lipase with all substrates tested ; the electrophoretic pattern of acid lipase was normal . 
the results suggest that the prenatal diagnosis of wolman disease be made using the radioassay of acid lipase and / or electrophoresis . . 
somatic mutations in the brca1 gene in sporadic ovarian tumours . 
the brca1 gene on chromosome 17q21 is responsible for an autosomal dominant syndrome of increased susceptibility to breast and ovarian cancer but no somatic mutations in tumours have yet been described . 
to study the potential role of brca1 in sporadic carcinogenesis , we analysed the genomic dna of tumour and normal fractions of _num2 ovarian cancers for mutations in brca1 using the single-strand conformation polymorphism technique . 
we now describe somatic mutations in the dna of four tumours which also had loss of heterozygosity -lrb- loh -rrb- at a brca1 intragenic marker . 
our data support a tumour suppressor mechanism for brca1 ; somatic mutations and loh may result in inactivation of brca1 in at least a small number of ovarian cancers . . 
skewed x inactivation in a female mz twin results in duchenne muscular dystrophy . 
one of female mz twins presented with muscular dystrophy . 
physical examination , creatine phosphokinase levels , and muscle biopsy were consistent with duchenne muscular dystrophy -lrb- dmd -rrb- . 
however , because of her sex she was diagnosed as having limb-girdle muscular dystrophy . 
with cdna probes to the dmd gene , a gene deletion was detected in the twins and their mother . 
the de novo mutation which arose in the mother was shown by novel junction fragments generated by hindiii , psti , or taqi when probed with cdna8 . 
additional evidence of a large gene deletion was given by novel sfii junction fragments detected by probes _an , j-bir , and j-66 on pulsed-field gel electrophoresis -lrb- pfge -rrb- . 
immunoblot analysis of muscle from the affected twin showed dystrophin of normal size but of reduced amount . 
immunofluorescent visualization of dystrophin revealed foci of dystrophin-positive fibers adjacent to foci of dystrophin-negative fibers . 
these data indicate that the affected twin is a manifesting carrier of an abnormal dmd gene , her myopathy being a direct result of underexpression of dystrophin . 
cytogenetic analysis revealed normal karyotypes , eliminating the possibility of a translocation affecting dmd gene function . 
both linkage analysis and dna fingerprint analysis revealed that each twin has two different x chromosomes , eliminating the possibility of uniparental disomy as a mechanism for dmd expression . 
on the basis of methylation differences of the paternal and maternal x chromosomes in these mz twins , we propose uneven lyonization -lrb- x chromosome inactivation -rrb- as the underlying mechanism for disease expression in the affected female . . 
coincident kaposi sarcoma and t-cell lymphoma in a patient with the wiskott-aldrich syndrome . 
a _num2 year old male with a history of eczema , recurrent mild infections , and thrombocytopenia consistent with the wiskott-aldrich syndrome -lrb- was -rrb- presented with a mediastinal mass , generalized lymphadenopathy , splenomegaly , and severe thrombocytopenia . 
studies of immune function including immunoglobulin levels and t-cell subsets were normal . 
furthermore , his t lymphocytes proliferated normally in response to phytohemagglutinin , concanavalin a , and the combination of neuraminidase / galactose oxidase . 
however , their proliferative responses to anti-cd43 antibody and periodate were diminished , consistent with the clinical diagnosis of was . 
an initial inguinal lymph node biopsy surprisingly revealed kaposi sarcoma . 
however , following splenectomy to increase the platelet count , biopsy of the mediastinal mass revealed t-cell large cell lymphoma . 
studies of biopsied tissue for the presence of epstein-barr virus and cytomegalovirus were negative , as were studies of blood , including the polymerase chain reaction , for the presence of the human immunodeficiency virus -lrb- hiv -rrb- . 
this is the first report of kaposi sarcoma arising in a patient with a congenital immunodeficiency syndrome . 
although kaposi sarcoma can arise in the face of the severe immunosuppression that follows allograft transplantation and in patients infected with hiv , we postulate that longevity in the face of mild immunosuppression was the major factor in the development of kaposi sarcoma in this patient . . 
treatment of cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis : effects of chenodeoxycholic acid , pravastatin , and combined use . 
treatments by oral administration of chenodeoxycholic acid -lrb- cdca -rrb- alone , 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl -lrb- hmg -rrb- coa reductase inhibitor -lrb- pravastatin -rrb- alone , and combination of the two drugs were attempted for _num1 patients with cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis -lrb- ctx -rrb- . 
cdca treatment at a dose of _num3 mg / day reduced serum cholestanol -lrb- _num2 . 
_num1 % reduction -rrb- , lathosterol -lrb- _num2 . 
_num1 % -rrb- , campesterol -lrb- _num2 . 
_num1 % -rrb- and sitosterol -lrb- _num2 . 
_num1 % -rrb- . 
however , the sera of the patients changed to be '' atherogenic '' ; total cholesterol , triglyceride and low-density lipoprotein -lrb- ldl -rrb- - cholesterol were increased , while high-density lipoprotein -lrb- hdl -rrb- - cholesterol was decreased . 
contrarily , pravastatin at a dose of _num2 mg / day improved the sera of the patients to be markedly '' anti-atherogenic '' , but the reductions of cholestanol -lrb- _num2 . 
_num1 % -rrb- , lathosterol -lrb- _num2 . 
_num1 % -rrb- , campesterol -lrb- _num2 . 
_num1 % -rrb- and sitosterol -lrb- _num1 . 
_num1 % -rrb- were inadequate . 
combined treatment with cdca and pravastatin showed good overlapping of the effects of each drug alone . 
the sera of the patients were apparently more '' anti-atherogenic '' than those after cdca treatment . 
serum cholestanol concentration was still _num1 . 
_num1 times higher than in controls , but the serum lathosterol level was within the normal range , indicating that the enhancement of overall cholesterol synthesis in the patients was sufficiently suppressed . 
plant sterol levels were also within the normal range . 
the combination of cdca and pravastatin was a good treatment for ctx , based on the improvement of serum lipoprotein metabolism , the suppression of cholesterol synthesis , and reductions of cholestanol and plant sterol levels . 
in all of _num1 patients , the progression of disease was arrested , but dramatic effects on clinical manifestations , xanthoma , and electrophysiological findings could not be found after the treatment of these drugs combined genetic deficiency of c6 and c7 in man . 
by routine screening of sera , a subject was discovered who showed a sub-total deficiency of c6 and c7 . 
no clinical disease was associated with this deficiency which was transmitted through the subjects family as a single genetic characteristic , the c6 deficiency being associated with a silent allele at the structural locus . 
the propositus was found to have low quantities of an abnormal c6 which was both antigenically deficient and smaller in size than normal c6 -lrb- _num3 , _num3 daltons compared with _num3 , _num3 daltons -rrb- and small quantities of apparently normal c7 . 
it is concluded that the most likely explanation for this defect is that the subject has a structural mutation in his c6 gene which produces hyopsynthesis not only of c6 but also of the closely linked gene for c7 . 
these findings suggest the possibility that c6 and c7 may function as a single genetic unit and that the primary transcript copied from the genome includes information for both proteins . . 
partial deletion 8q without langer-giedion syndrome : a recognisable syndrome . 
we report two de novo cases of del -lrb- _num1 -rrb- -lrb- pter -- _an . 
_num1 -rrb- with breakpoints involving the distal part of band 8q24 . 
_num1 _num1 . 
the clinical features were similar and there were no obvious stigmata of langer-giedion syndrome -lrb- lgs -rrb- . 
there are three other cases reported with a deletion of chromosome _num1 at approximately the same breakpoint , one without lgs and some similarities to our cases , the other two with lgs . 
our findings would support the observation that the critical segment for the assignment of lgs is proximal to or involves the proximal part of 8q24 . 
_num1 , but a review of published reports suggests that the aetiology of lgs may be a more complex issue iron-dependent self-assembly of recombinant yeast frataxin : implications for friedreich ataxia . 
frataxin deficiency is the primary cause of friedreich ataxia -lrb- frda -rrb- , an autosomal recessive cardiodegenerative and neurodegenerative disease . 
frataxin is a nuclear-encoded mitochondrial protein that is widely conserved among eukaryotes . 
genetic inactivation of the yeast frataxin homologue -lrb- yfh1p -rrb- results in mitochondrial iron accumulation and hypersensitivity to oxidative stress . 
increased iron deposition and evidence of oxidative damage have also been observed in cardiac tissue and cultured fibroblasts from patients with frda . 
these findings indicate that frataxin is essential for mitochondrial iron homeostasis and protection from iron-induced formation of free radicals . 
the functional mechanism of frataxin , however , is still unknown . 
we have expressed the mature form of yfh1p -lrb- myfh1p -rrb- in escherichia coli and have analyzed its function in vitro . 
isolated myfh1p is a soluble monomer -lrb- _num2 , _num3 da -rrb- that contains no iron and shows no significant tendency to self-associate . 
aerobic addition of ferrous iron to myfh1p results in assembly of regular spherical multimers with a molecular mass of approximately _num1 . 
_num1 mda -lrb- megadaltons -rrb- and a diameter of _num2 + / -2 nm . 
each multimer consists of approximately _num2 subunits and can sequester > _num1 , _num3 atoms of iron . 
titration of myfh1p with increasing iron concentrations supports a stepwise mechanism of multimer assembly . 
sequential addition of an iron chelator and a reducing agent results in quantitative iron release with concomitant disassembly of the multimer , indicating that myfh1p sequesters iron in an available form . 
in yeast mitochondria , native myfh1p exists as monomer and a higher-order species with a molecular weight > _num3 , _num3 . 
after addition of -lrb- _num2 -rrb- fe to the medium , immunoprecipitates of this species contain > _num2 atoms of -lrb- _num2 -rrb- fe per molecule of myfh1p . 
we propose that iron-dependent self-assembly of recombinant myfh1p reflects a physiological role for frataxin in mitochondrial iron sequestration and bioavailability . . 
human mutations in glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase reflect evolutionary history . 
glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase -lrb- g6pd -rrb- is a cytosolic enzyme encoded by a housekeeping x-linked gene whose main function is to produce nadph , a key electron donor in the defense against oxidizing agents and in reductive biosynthetic reactions . 
inherited g6pd deficiency is associated with either episodic hemolytic anemia -lrb- triggered by fava beans or other agents -rrb- or life-long hemolytic anemia . 
we show here that an evolutionary analysis is a key to understanding the biology of a housekeeping gene . 
from the alignment of the amino acid -lrb- aa -rrb- sequence of _num2 glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase -lrb- g6pd -rrb- species from _num2 different organisms , we found a striking correlation between the aa replacements that cause g6pd deficiency in humans and the sequence conservation of g6pd two-thirds of such replacements are in highly and moderately conserved -lrb- 50-99 % -rrb- aa ; relatively few are in fully conserved aa -lrb- where they might be lethal -rrb- or in poorly conserved aa , where presumably they simply would not cause g6pd deficiency . 
this is consistent with the notion that all human mutants have residual enzyme activity and that null mutations are lethal at some stage of development . 
comparing the distribution of mutations in a human housekeeping gene with evolutionary conservation is a useful tool for pinpointing amino acid residues important for the stability or the function of the corresponding protein . 
in view of the current explosive increase in full genome sequencing projects , this tool will become rapidly available for numerous other genes . . 
regionally clustered apc mutations are associated with a severe phenotype and occur at a high frequency in new mutation cases of adenomatous polyposis coli . 
germline mutation in apc at 5q21-22 results in the dominantly inherited syndrome adenomatous polyposis coli -lrb- apc -rrb- . 
somatic mutation in this gene is an early event in colorectal tumourigenesis . 
both types of mutation are concentrated in the _num1 half of exon _num2 . 
we have used single strand conformational polymorphism -lrb- sscp -rrb- and heteroduplex analysis to screen for variants in this region of the gene in a total of _num2 affected but unrelated individuals . 
eighteen patients had no family history of the disease ; of these _num2 were classified as having a severe phenotype , based on an early age at presentation or cancer development . 
this compared with _num1 of _num2 familial cases . 
a _num1 bp deletion at codon _num4 reported to occur in 10-15 % of unselected apc patients worldwide , was found in _num1 of the _num2 new mutation cases and _num1 of the _num2 familial cases all nine were classed as severe . 
a further _num1 new mutations and _num1 familial mutation were located downstream from codon _num4 , these individuals similarly being classed as phenotypically severe . 
in contrast all of the apc mutations detected in affected individuals with an average phenotype were located prior to codon _num4 . 
the frequent association of a severe phenotype with fresh mutation may explain the apparent conflict of a high mutation rate -lrb- 20-30 % -rrb- in a condition , which on average , is lethal at a post-reproductive age . . 
analysis of alkaptonuria -lrb- aku -rrb- mutations and polymorphisms reveals that the _ds sequence motif is a mutational hot spot in the homogentisate _mt dioxygenase gene -lrb- hgo -rrb- . 
we recently showed that alkaptonuria -lrb- aku -rrb- is caused by loss-of-function mutations in the homogentisate _num1 , _num1 dioxygenase gene -lrb- hgo -rrb- . 
herein we describe haplotype and mutational analyses of hgo in seven new aku pedigrees . 
these analyses identified two novel single-nucleotide polymorphisms -lrb- inv4 + 31a -- > g and inv11 + 18a -- > g -rrb- and six novel aku mutations -lrb- inv1-1g -- > a , w60g , y62c , a122d , p230t , and d291e -rrb- , which further illustrates the remarkable allelic heterogeneity found in aku . 
reexamination of all _num2 mutations and polymorphisms thus far described in hgo shows that these nucleotide changes are not randomly distributed ; the _ds sequence motif and its inverted complement , _ds , are preferentially mutated . 
these analyses also demonstrated that the nucleotide substitutions in hgo do not involve cpg dinucleotides , which illustrates important differences between hgo and other genes for the occurrence of mutation at specific short-sequence motifs . 
because the _ds sequence motifs comprise a significant proportion -lrb- _num2 . 
_num1 % -rrb- of all mutated bases that have been observed in hgo , we conclude that the _ds triplet is a mutational hot spot in hgo . 
further evidence for heterogeneity of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency in papua new guinea . 
four new g6pd variants have been characterized in individuals from papua new guinea . 
this study demonstrates that the previously reported markham variant and the newly characterized salata variant may be widely distributed in papua new guinea . 
th data presented here together with those of previously published studies demonstrate a degree of heterogeneity of g6pd deficiency that is much higher than that in other regions of the world where g6pd deficiency is common . . 
overgrowth of oral mucosa and facial skin , a novel feature of aspartylglucosaminuria . 
aspartylglucosaminuria -lrb- agu -rrb- is a lysosomal storage disorder caused by deficiency of aspartylglucosaminidase -lrb- _ds -rrb- . 
the main symptom is progressive mental retardation . 
a spectrum of different mutations has been reported in this disease , one missense mutation -lrb- cys163ser -rrb- being responsible for the majority of finnish cases . 
we were able to examine _num2 finnish agu patients for changes in the oral mucosa and _num2 of these for changes in facial skin . 
biopsy specimens of _num2 oral lesions , _num2 of them associated with the teeth , plus two facial lesions were studied histologically . 
immunohistochemical staining for _ds was performed on _num2 oral specimens . 
skin was seborrhoeic in adolescent and adult patients , with erythema of the facial skin already common in childhood . 
of _num2 patients , nine -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- had facial angiofibromas , tumours primarily occurring in association with tuberous sclerosis . 
oedemic buccal mucosa -lrb- leucoedema -rrb- and gingival overgrowths were more frequent in agu patients than in controls -lrb- p < _num1 . 
_num3 -rrb- . 
of _num2 oral mucosal lesions studied histologically , _num2 represented fibroepithelial or epithelial hyperplasias and were reactive in nature . 
cytoplasmic vacuolisation was evident in four . 
immunohistochemically , expression of _ds in agu patients mucosal lesions did not differ from that seen in corresponding lesions of normal subjects . 
thus , the high frequency of mucosal overgrowth in agu patients does not appear to be directly associated with lysosomal storage or with alterations in the level of _ds expression . 
molecular characterization of galactosemia -lrb- type _num1 -rrb- mutations in japanese . 
we characterized two novel mutations of the galactose-1-phosphate uridyltransferase -lrb- galt -rrb- gene in two japanese patients with galt deficiency and identified n314d and r333w mutations , previously found in caucasians . 
one novel missense mutation was an g-to-a transition in exon _num1 , resulting in the substitution of arginine by histidine at the codon _num3 -lrb- r231h -rrb- . 
galt activity of the r231h mutant construct was reduced to _num2 % of normal controls in a cos cell expression system . 
the other was a splicing mutation , an a-to-g transition at the 38th nucleotide in exon _num1 -lrb- 318a -- > g -rrb- , resulting in a 38-bp deletion in the galt cdna by activating a cryptic splice acceptor site . 
in seven japanese families -lrb- _num2 alleles for classic form and one allele for duarte variant -rrb- with galt deficiency , the r231h and 318a -- > g mutations were found only on both alleles of the proband . 
the n314d and r333w mutations were found on one allele each . 
the q188r was prevalent in the united states but not in japanese patients . 
the n314d mutation was associated with the duarte variant in japanese persons , as well as in the united states . 
we speculate that classic galactosemia mutations appear to differ between japanese and caucasian patients . 
our limited data set on galactosemia mutations in japanese suggests that the n314d galt mutation encoding the duarte variant arose before asian and caucasian people diverged and that classic galactosemia mutations arose and / or accumulated after the divergence of asian and caucasian populations . . 
linkage disequilibrium mapping in isolated founder populations : diastrophic dysplasia in finland . 
linkage disequilibrium mapping in isolated populations provides a powerful tool for fine structure localization of disease genes . 
here , luria and delbrucks classical methods for analysing bacterial cultures are adapted to the study of human isolated founder populations in order to estimate -lrb- i -rrb- the recombination fraction between a disease locus and a marker ; -lrb- ii -rrb- the expected degree of allelic homogeneity in a population ; and -lrb- iii -rrb- the mutation rate of marker loci . 
using these methods , we report striking linkage disequilibrium for diastrophic dysplasia -lrb- dtd -rrb- in finland indicating that the dtd gene should lie within _num1 . 
_num2 centimorgans -lrb- or about _num2 kilobases -rrb- of the csf1r gene . 
predictions about allelic homogeneity in finland and mutation rates in simple sequence repeats are confirmed by independent observations . 
mutations in tnfrsf11a , affecting the signal peptide of rank , cause familial expansile osteolysis . 
familial expansile osteolysis -lrb- feo , mim _num6 -rrb- is a rare , autosomal dominant bone disorder characterized by focal areas of increased bone remodelling . 
the osteolytic lesions , which develop usually in the long bones during early adulthood , show increased osteoblast and osteoclast activity . 
our previous linkage studies mapped the gene responsible for feo to an interval of less than _num1 cm between d18s64 and d18s51 on chromosome 18q21 . 
2-21 2-21 . 
_num1 in a large northern irish family . 
the gene encoding receptor activator of nuclear factor-kappa b -lrb- rank ; ref . 
_num1 -rrb- , tnfrsf11a , maps to this region . 
rank is essential in osteoclast formation . 
we identified two heterozygous insertion mutations in exon _num1 of tnfrsf11a in affected members of four families with feo or familial paget disease of bone -lrb- pdb -rrb- . 
one was a duplication of _num2 bases and the other a duplication of _num2 bases , both of which affected the signal peptide region of the rank molecule . 
expression of recombinant forms of the mutant rank proteins revealed perturbations in expression levels and lack of normal cleavage of the signal peptide . 
both mutations caused an increase in rank-mediated nuclear factor-kappab -lrb- nf-kappab -rrb- signalling in vitro , consistent with the presence of an activating mutation . 
adrenoleukodystrophy-related protein can compensate functionally for adrenoleukodystrophy protein deficiency -lrb- x-ald -rrb- : implications for therapy . 
inherited defects in the peroxisomal atp-binding cassette -lrb- abc -rrb- transporter adrenoleukodystrophy protein -lrb- aldp -rrb- lead to the lethal peroxisomal disorder x-linked adrenoleukodystrophy -lrb- x-ald -rrb- , for which no efficient treatment has been established so far . 
three other peroxisomal abc transporters currently are known adrenoleukodystrophy-related protein -lrb- aldrp -rrb- , _num2 kda peroxisomal membrane protein -lrb- pmp70 -rrb- and pmp70 - related protein . 
by using transient and stable overexpression of human cdnas encoding aldp and its closest relative aldrp , we could restore the impaired peroxisomal beta-oxidation in fibroblasts of x-ald patients . 
the pathognomonic accumulation of very long chain fatty acids could also be prevented by overexpression of aldrp in immortalized x-ald cells . 
immunofluorescence analysis demonstrated that the functional replacement of aldp by aldrp was not due to stabilization of the mutated aldp itself . 
moreover , we were able to restore the peroxisomal beta-oxidation defect in the liver of aldp-deficient mice by stimulation of aldrp and pmp70 gene expression through a dietary treatment with the peroxisome proliferator fenofibrate . 
these results suggest that a correction of the biochemical defect in x-ald could be possible by drug-induced overexpression or ectopic expression of aldrp . . 
the normal huntington disease -lrb- hd -rrb- allele , or a closely linked gene , influences age at onset of hd . 
we evaluated the hypothesis that huntington disease -lrb- hd -rrb- is influenced by the normal hd allele by comparing transmission patterns of genetically linked markers at the d4s10 locus in the normal parent against age at onset in the affected offspring . 
analysis of information from _num2 sibships in _num2 kindreds showed a significant tendency for sibs who have similar onset ages to share the same d4s10 allele from the normal parent . 
affected sibs who inherited different d4s10 alleles from the normal parent tended to have more variable ages at onset . 
these findings suggest that the expression of hd is modulated by the normal hd allele or by a closely linked locus . . 
synergistic effect of histone hyperacetylation and dna demethylation in the reactivation of the fmr1 gene . 
most fragile x syndrome patients have expansion of a -lrb- _ds -rrb- -lrb- n -rrb- sequence with > _num3 repeats -lrb- full mutation -rrb- in the fmr1 gene responsible for this condition . 
hypermethylation of the expanded repeat and of the fmr1 promoter is almost always present and apparently suppresses transcription , resulting in absence of the fmr1 protein . 
we recently showed that transcriptional reactivation of fmr1 full mutations can be achieved by inducing dna demethylation with 5-azadeoxycytidine -lrb- 5-azadc -rrb- . 
the level of histone acetylation is another important factor in regulating gene expression ; therefore , we treated lymphoblastoid cell lines of non-mosaic full mutation patients with three drugs capable of inducing histone hyperacetylation . 
we observed a consistent , although modest , reactivation of the fmr1 gene with 4-phenylbutyrate , sodium butyrate and trichostatin a , as shown by rt-pcr . 
however , we report that combining these drugs with 5-azadc results in a _num1 - to 5-fold increase in fmr1 mrna levels obtained with 5-azadc alone , thus showing a marked synergistic effect of histone hyperacetylation and dna demethylation in the reactivation of fmr1 full mutations . . 
genetic heterogeneity in x-linked amelogenesis imperfecta . 
the amelx gene located at xp22 . 
1-p22 . 
_num1 encodes for the enamel protein amelogenin and has been implicated as the gene responsible for the inherited dental abnormality x-linked amelogenesis imperfecta -lrb- xai -rrb- . 
three families with xai have been investigated using polymorphic dna markers flanking the position of amelx . 
using two-point linkage analysis , linkage was established between xai and several of these markers in two families , with a combined lod score of _num1 . 
_num2 for dxs16 at theta = _num1 . 
_num2 _num2 . 
this supports the involvement of amelx , located close to dxs16 , in the xai disease process -lrb- aih1 -rrb- in those families . 
using multipoint linkage analysis , the combined maximum lod score for these two families was _num1 . 
_num2 for a location of aih1 at _num1 cm distal to dxs16 . 
the support interval around this location extended about _num1 cm proximal to dxs92 , and the aih1 location could not be precisely defined by multipoint mapping . 
study of recombination events indicated that aih1 lies in the interval between dxs143 and dxs85 . 
there was significant evidence against linkage to this region in the third family , indicating locus heterogeneity in xai . 
further analysis with markers on the long arm of the x chromosome showed evidence of linkage to dxs144e and f9 with no recombination with either of these markers . 
two-point analysis gave a peak lod score at dxs144e with a maximum lod score of _num1 . 
_num2 at theta = _num1 , with a peak lod score in multipoint linkage analysis of _num1 . 
_num2 at theta = _num1 . 
the support interval extended _num1 cm proximal to dxs144e and _num2 cm distal to f9 . 
-lrb- abstract truncated _ds _num3 words -rrb- . 
anonymous marker loci within _num3 kb of hla-a generate haplotypes in linkage disequilibrium with the hemochromatosis gene -lrb- hfe -rrb- the hemochromatosis gene -lrb- hfe -rrb- maps to 6p21 . 
_num1 and is less than _num1 cm from the hla class i genes ; however , the precise physical location of the gene has remained elusive and controversial . 
the unambiguous identification of a crossover event within hemochromatosis families is very difficult ; it is particularly hampered by the variability of the phenotypic expression as well as by the sex - and age-related penetrance of the disease . 
for these practical considerations , traditional linkage analysis could prove of limited value in further refining the extrapolated physical position of hfe . 
we therefore embarked upon a linkage-disequilibrium analysis of hfe and normal chromosomes from the brittany population . 
in the present report , _num2 hemochromatosis families yielding _num3 hemochromatosis chromosomes and _num3 normal chromosomes were rflp-typed with a battery of probes , including two newly derived polymorphic markers from the _num1 . 
_num1 and hla-f loci located _num3 and _num3 kb telomeric to hla-a , respectively . 
the results suggest a strong peak of existing linkage disequilibrium focused within the i82-to-6 . 
_num1 interval -lrb- approximately _num3 kb -rrb- . 
the zone of linkage disequilibrium is flanked by the _an locus , positioned _num2 kb proximal to _an , and the hla-f gene , found _num3 kb distal to hla-a , markers of which display no significant association with hfe . 
these data support the possibility that hfe resides within the 400-kb expanse of dna between _an and hla-f . 
alternatively , the very tight association of hla-a3 and allele _num1 of the _num1 . 
_num1 locus , both of which are comprised by the major ancestral or founder hfe haplotype in brittany , supports the possibility that the disease gene may reside immediately telomeric to the _num1 . 
_num1 locus within the linkage-disequilibrium zone . 
additionally , hemochromatosis haplotypes possessing hla-a11 and the low-frequency hla-f polymorphism -lrb- allele _num1 -rrb- are supportive of a separate founder chromosome containing a second , independently arising mutant allele . 
overall , the establishment of a likely '' hemochromatosis critical region '' centromeric boundary and the identification of a linkage-disequilibrium zone both significantly contribute to a reduction in the amount of dna required to be searched for novel coding sequences constituting the hfe defect natural selection of hemi - and heterozygotes for g6pd deficiency in africa by resistance to severe malaria . 
glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase -lrb- g6pd -rrb- deficiency , the most common enzymopathy of humans , affects over _num3 million people . 
the geographical correlation of its distribution with the historical endemicity of malaria suggests that this disorder has risen in frequency through natural selection by malaria . 
however , attempts to confirm that g6pd deficiency is protective in case-control studies of malaria have yielded conflicting results . 
hence , for this x-linked disorder , it is unclear whether both male hemizygotes and female heterozygotes are protected or , as frequently suggested , only females . 
furthermore , how much protection may be afforded is unknown . 
here we report that , in two large case-control studies of over _num1 , _num3 african children , the common african form of g6pd deficiency -lrb- g6pd a- -rrb- is associated with a 46-58 % reduction in risk of severe malaria for both female heterozygotes and male hemizygotes . 
a mathematical model incorporating the measured selective advantage against malaria suggests that a counterbalancing selective disadvantage , associated with this enzyme deficiency , has retarded its rise in frequency in malaria endemic regions . 
although g6pd deficiency is now regarded as a generally benign disorder , in earlier environmental conditions it could have been significantly disadvantageous . . 
prader-willi syndrome and chromosome _num2 . 
a clinical discussion of _num2 cases . 
a chromosome _num2 anomaly was observed in _num2 of _num2 patients , _num2 of whom were clinically suspected of having prader-willi syndrome -lrb- pws -rrb- . 
the clinical features of eight cases with 15q11-12 deletion were very similar to those originally described in pws . 
on the other hand , the group of normal karyotype patients is heterogeneous , and their features do not strictly correspond to the clinical definition of pws . 
however , the hypothesis that pws is associated with deletion of 15q11-12 can neither explain the apparently balanced translocations of chromosome _num2 nor account for the small supernumerary metacentric chromosomes corresponding to an isochromosome _num2 for band 15q11 observed in some cases . . 
molecular basis of phenylketonuria and related hyperphenylalaninemias : mutations and polymorphisms in the human phenylalanine hydroxylase gene . 
mutations in the human phenylalanine hydroxylase gene producing phenylketonuria or hyperphenylalaninemia have now been identified in many patients from various ethnic groups . 
these mutations all exhibit a high degree of association with specific restriction fragment-length polymorphism haplotypes at the pah locus . 
about _num2 of these mutations are single-base substitutions , including six nonsense mutations and eight splicing mutations , with the remainder being missense mutations . 
one splicing mutation results in a _num1 amino acid in-frame insertion . 
two or _num1 large deletions , _num1 single codon deletions , and _num1 single base deletions have been found . 
twelve of the missense mutations apparently result from the methylation and subsequent deamination of highly mutagenic cpg dinucleotides . 
recurrent mutation has been observed at several of these sites , producing associations with different haplotypes in different populations . 
about half of all missense mutations have been examined by in vitro expression analysis , and a significant correlation has been observed between residual pah activity and disease phenotype . 
since continuing advances in molecular methodologies have dramatically accelerated the rate in which new mutations are being identified and characterized , this register of mutations will be updated periodically . . 
the intron _num1 donor splice site transition : a second tay-sachs disease mutation in french canada . 
mutations at the hexosaminidase a -lrb- hexa -rrb- gene which cause tay-sachs disease -lrb- tsd -rrb- have elevated frequency in the ashkenazi jewish and french-canadian populations . 
we report a novel tsd allele in the french-canadian population associated with the infantile form of the disease . 
the mutation , a g -- > a transition at the + _num1 position of intron _num1 , abolishes the donor splice site . 
cultured human fibroblasts from a compound heterozygote for this transition -lrb- and for a deletion mutation -rrb- produce no detectable hexa mrna . 
the intron _num1 + _num1 mutation occurs in the base adjacent to the site of the adult-onset tsd mutation -lrb- g805a -rrb- . 
in both mutations a restriction site for the endonuclease ecorii is abolished . 
unambiguous diagnosis , therefore , requires allele-specific oligonucleotide hybridization to distinguish between these two mutant alleles . 
the intron _num1 + _num1 mutation has been detected in three unrelated families . 
obligate heterozygotes for the intron _num1 + _num1 mutation were born in the saguenay-lac-st-jean region of quebec . 
the most recent ancestors common to obligate carriers of this mutation were from the charlevoix region of the province of quebec . 
this mutation thus has a different geographic centre of diffusion and is probably less common than the exon _num1 deletion tsd mutation in french canadians . 
neither mutation has been detected in france , the ancestral homeland of french canada . . 
recessively inherited multiple epiphyseal dysplasia with normal stature , club foot , and double layered patella caused by a dtdst mutation . 
we have observed over _num2 different mutations in the diastrophic dysplasia sulphate transporter gene -lrb- dtdst -rrb- in association with the recessive disorders achondrogenesis 1b , atelosteogenesis _num1 , and diastrophic dysplasia . 
the c862t -lrb- r279w -rrb- transition is the most common mutation in non-finnish patients , but in these disorders it is usually combined with other dtdst mutations . 
we had not seen a case of homozygosity for c862t -lrb- r279w -rrb- until we analysed dna from a _num2 year old male with tall-normal stature -lrb- _num3 cm -rrb- who asked for genetic counselling for suspected multiple epiphyseal dysplasia . 
he was treated for club foot and hip dysplasia at birth . 
skeletal changes consistent with multiple epiphyseal dysplasia , with the peculiar finding of a double layered patella , were recognised during childhood . 
cleft palate , swelling of the ear pinna , and hitch hiker thumb were absent . 
he was found to be homozygous , and both healthy parents heterozygous , for the r279w mutation in dtdst , and his fibroblasts showed a sulphate incorporation defect typical of dtdst disorders . 
counselling was given for a recessive disorder , thereby considerably reducing the probability of affected offspring . 
multiple epiphyseal dysplasia is more frequently caused by dominant mutations in the comp -lrb- edm1 , mckusick _num6 -rrb- and col9a2 genes -lrb- edm2 , mckusick _num6 -rrb- . 
a few other patients and families with features similar to our proband have been described previously and considered to have autosomal recessive med -lrb- edm4 , mckusick _num6 -rrb- . 
this observation confirms the existence of this entity and assigns it to the phenotypic spectrum associated with mutations at the dtdst locus . . 
myotonic dystrophy : size - and sex-dependent dynamics of _ds meiotic instability , and somatic mosaicism . 
myotonic dystrophy -lrb- dm -rrb- is a progressive neuromuscular disorder which results from elongations of an unstable -lrb- _ds -rrb- n repeat , located in the _num1 untranslated region of the dm gene . 
a correlation has been demonstrated between the increase in the repeat number of this sequence and the severity of the disease . 
however , the clinical status of patients can not be unambiguously ascertained solely on the basis of the number of _ds repeats . 
moreover , the exclusive maternal inheritance of the congenital form remains unexplained . 
our observation of differently sized repeats in various dm tissues from the same individual may explain why the size of the mutation observed in lymphocytes does not necessarily correlate with the severity and nature of symptoms . 
through a molecular and genetic study of _num3 families including _num3 dm patients , we have investigated the dynamics of the _ds repeat meiotic instability . 
a positive correlation between the size of the repeat and the intergenerational enlargement was observed similarly through male and female meioses for < or = _num1 . 
5-kb _ds sequences . 
beyond _num1 . 
_num1 kb , the intergenerational variation was more important through female meioses , whereas a tendency to compression was observed almost exclusively in male meioses , for > or = _num1 . 
5-kb fragments . 
this implies a size - and sex-dependent meiotic instability . 
moreover , segregation analysis supports the hypothesis of a maternal as well as a familial predisposition for the occurrence of the congenital form . 
finally , this analysis reveals a significant excess of transmitting grandfathers partially accounted for by increased fertility in affected males fatal pyoderma gangrenosum in association with c7 deficiency . 
although pyoderma gangrenosum -lrb- pg -rrb- is often associated with systemic diseases , it has not been reported in association with congenital complement deficiencies . 
we describe an aggressive and ultimately fatal case of pg in a patient with a congenital c7 deficiency . 
deficiencies of c7 can be associated with decreased neutrophil chemotaxis , phagocytosis , and opsonization , similar to the immunologic abnormalities described in patients with pg . 
our patients decreased complement level , if not directly related to the development of pg , may have contributed to the aggressive nature of her disease . . 
emerin deficiency at the nuclear membrane in patients with emery-dreifuss muscular dystrophy . 
mutations in the sta gene at the xq28 locus have been found in patients with x-linked emery-dreifuss muscular dystrophy -lrb- edmd -rrb- . 
this gene encodes a hitherto unknown protein named emerin . 
to elucidate the subcellular localization of emerin , we raised two antisera against synthetic peptide fragments predicted from emerin cdna . 
using both antisera , we found positive nuclear membrane staining in skeletal , cardiac and smooth muscles in the normal controls and in patients with neuromuscular diseases other than edmd . 
in contrast , a deficiency in immunofluorescent staining of skeletal and cardiac muscle from edmd patients was observed . 
a _num2 kd protein is immunoreactive with the antisera -- the protein is equivalent to that predicted for emerin . 
together , our findings suggest the specific deficiency of emerin in the nuclear membrane of muscle cells in patients with edmd . . 
a p16ink4a-insensitive cdk4 mutant targeted by cytolytic t lymphocytes in a human melanoma . 
a mutated cyclin-dependent kinase _num1 -lrb- cdk4 -rrb- was identified as a tumor specific antigen recognized by hla-a2 . 
1-restricted autologous cytolytic t lymphocytes -lrb- ctls -rrb- in a human melanoma . 
the mutated cdk4 allele was present in autologous cultured melanoma cells and metastasis tissue , but not in the patients lymphocytes . 
the mutation , an arginine-to-cysteine exchange at residue _num2 , was part of the cdk4 peptide recognized by ctls and prevented binding of the cdk4 inhibitor p16ink4a , but not of _an or of p27kip1 . 
the same mutation was found in one additional melanoma among _num2 melanomas analyzed . 
these results suggest that mutation of cdk4 can create a tumor specific antigen and can disrupt the cell-cycle regulation exerted by the tumor suppressor p16ink4a . . 
molecular analysis in familial neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus : early diagnosis of an asymptomatic carrier . 
familial neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus -lrb- fndi -rrb- is an inherited deficiency of the hormone arginine vasopressin -lrb- avp -rrb- and is transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait . 
in the present study we have analyzed the avp-neurophysin ii -lrb- avp-npii -rrb- gene in a spanish kindred . 
studies were performed on seven members -lrb- four clinically affected -rrb- of the family . 
patients were diagnosed at the hospital universitario gregorio maranon -lrb- madrid , spain -rrb- . 
the entire coding region of the avp-npii gene of all family members was amplified by pcr and sequenced . 
all affected individuals presented a missense mutation -lrb- _an -- > a -rrb- that replaces glycine at position _num2 with arginine within the npii domain . 
the substitution was confirmed by restriction endonuclease analysis and was present in heterozygosis . 
additionally , one of the asymptomatic relatives -lrb- a girl _num1 months old at the time of study -rrb- was identified as carrier of the same mutation and developed the disease _num1 months later . 
the alteration found in the second exon of the gene in this family seems to be responsible for the disease , as all individuals harboring the mutation had been previously diagnosed or have eventually developed fndi . 
identification of the molecular defect underlying fndi in affected families is a powerful tool for early asymptomatic diagnosis in infants . . 
sialophorin , a surface sialoglycoprotein defective in the wiskott-aldrich syndrome , is involved in human t lymphocyte proliferation . 
the mab _an was used to determine the distribution and the function of sialophorin , the heavily glycosylated surface molecule that is deficient / defective in lymphocytes of patients with the x-linked immunodeficiency wiskott-aldrich syndrome . 
dual-parameter facs analysis indicated that sialophorin is expressed on cd4 + and cd8 + lymphocytes , on a subpopulation of peripheral blood b lymphocytes , on all thymocytes , and on a subpopulation of bone marrow cells . 
functional studies demonstrated that _an mab stimulates the proliferation of peripheral blood t lymphocytes as measured by stimulation of -lsb- 3h -rsb- thymidine incorporation . 
the time course and magnitude of increased -lsb- 3h -rsb- thymidine incorporation by t lymphocytes in response to _an mab paralleled that induced by anti-cd3 mab . 
effective stimulation was dependent on the presence of monocytes and the fc portion of _an mab . 
stimulation of lymphocytes by _an , like stimulation by anti-cd3 mab , involves increased expression of 4f2 , hla-dr , and il-2-r . 
these observations suggest that sialophorin functions in t cell activation . . 
characterization of the rat spinocerebellar ataxia type _num1 gene . 
machado-joseph disease -lrb- mjd -rrb- belongs to a group of clinically and genetically heterogeneous neurodegenerative disorders characterized by progressive cerebellar ataxia . 
the disease-causing mutation has recently been identified as an unstable and expanded -lrb- _ds -rrb- n trinucleotide repeat in a novel gene of unknown function . 
in caucasians , repeat expansions in the mjd1 gene have also been found in patients with the clinically distinct autosomal dominant spinocerebellar ataxia type _num1 -lrb- sca3 -rrb- . 
in order to gain insight into the biology of the mjd1 / sca3 gene we cloned the rat homologue and studied its expression . 
the rat and human ataxin-3 genes are highly homologous with an overall sequence identity of approximately _num2 % . 
however , the c-terminal end of the putative protein differs strongly from the published human sequence . 
the -lrb- _ds -rrb- n block in the rat cdna consists of just three interrupted units suggesting that a long polyglutamine stretch is not essential for the normal function of the ataxin-3 protein in rodents . 
the expression pattern of the sca3 gene in various rat and human tissues was investigated by northern blot analyses . 
the mature transcript is approximately _num1 kb in length . 
in rat testis , a smaller transcript of _num1 . 
_num1 kb was identified . 
transcription of rsca3 was detected in most rat tissues including brain . 
analyzing the expression level of the sca3 gene in several human brain sections revealed no significant higher mrna level in regions predominantly affected in mjd . 
thus additional molecules and / or regulatory events are necessary to explain the exclusive degeneration of certain brain areas . 
the alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma pax3 / fkhr fusion protein is a transcriptional activator . 
chimeric transcription factors , created by gene fusions as the result of chromosomal translocations , have been implicated in the pathogenesis of several pathologically disparate solid tumors . 
the pax3 / fkhr fusion gene , formed by a t -lrb- _num1 ; _num2 -rrb- -lrb- _an ; _an -rrb- in alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma , encodes a hybrid protein that contains both pax3 dna binding domains , the paired box and homeodomain , linked to the bisected dna binding domain of fkhr , a member of the forkhead family of transcription factors . 
here we report that pax3 and pax3 / fkhr display similar , but not identical transactivation activities when tested with model pax recognition sequences . 
no functional role could be ascribed solely to the residual fkhr binding domain present in the fusion protein , but fkhr was found to contribute a strong carboxyl terminal activation domain replacing the one located in the unrearranged pax3 gene . 
we show that the native pax3 / fkhr protein present in tumor cells with this translocation has transcriptional characteristics similar to the in vitro expressed protein . 
the ability of the pax3 / fkhr hybrid protein to bind dna in a sequence specific manner and to transactivate the expression of artificial reporter genes suggests that its aberrant expression could subvert the transcriptional programs that normally control the growth , differentiation , and survival of primitive myogenic precursors in vivo . . 
myotonia levior is a chloride channel disorder . 
the group of dominant non-dystrophic myotonias , comprising disorders characterized by clinically similar forms of myogenic muscle stiffness , is genetically inhomogeneous . 
dominant myotonia congenita -lrb- thomsens disease -rrb- is linked to clcn1 , the gene encoding the major muscle chloride channel , localized on chromosome 7q35 . 
in contrast , dominant myotonias sensitive to potassium are caused by point mutations in scn4a on chromosome 17q , the gene for the alpha subunit of the adult skeletal muscle sodium channel . 
no linkage or molecular genetic data are as yet available on myotonia levior characterized by milder symptoms and later onset of myotonia than in thomsens disease , and absence of muscle hypertrophy . 
we report a clcn1 gln-552-arg substitution for a family with dominant inheritance previously diagnosed to have myotonia levior . 
thus , this disorder appears as a variant of thomsens disease due to mutations leading to low clinical expressivity . 
in addition , we report a novel ile-290-met clcn1 mutation for a typical thomsen pedigree . 
in another family previously diagnosed as having thomsens disease , we unexpectedly found a clcn1 _num2 bp deletion known to cause recessive myotonia , and a rare trp-118-gly polymorphism . . 
markedly accelerated catabolism of apolipoprotein a-ii -lrb- apoa-ii -rrb- and high density lipoproteins containing apoa-ii in classic lecithin : cholesterol acyltransferase deficiency and fish-eye disease . 
classic -lrb- complete -rrb- lecithin cholesterol acyltransferase -lrb- lcat -rrb- deficiency and fish-eye disease -lrb- partial lcat deficiency -rrb- are genetic syndromes associated with markedly decreased plasma levels of high density lipoprotein -lrb- hdl -rrb- cholesterol but not with an increased risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease . 
we investigated the metabolism of the hdl apolipoproteins -lrb- apo -rrb- apoa-i and apoa-ii in a total of five patients with lcat deficiency , one with classic lcat deficiency and four with fish-eye disease . 
plasma levels of apoa-ii were decreased to a proportionately greater extent -lrb- _num2 % of normal -rrb- than apoa-i -lrb- _num2 % of normal -rrb- . 
in addition , plasma concentrations of hdl particles containing both apoa-i and apoa-ii -lrb- lpa-i a-ii -rrb- were much lower -lrb- _num2 % of normal -rrb- than those of particles containing only apoa-i -lrb- lpa-i -rrb- -lrb- _num2 % of normal -rrb- . 
the metabolic basis for the low levels of apoa-ii and lpa-i a-ii was investigated in all five patients using both exogenous radiotracer and endogenous stable isotope labeling techniques . 
the mean plasma residence time of apoa-i was decreased at _num1 . 
_num2 + / - _num1 . 
_num2 d -lrb- controls _num1 . 
_num2 + / - _num1 . 
_num2 days -rrb- ; however , the residence time of apoa-ii was even shorter at _num1 . 
_num2 + / - _num1 . 
_num2 d -lrb- controls _num1 . 
_num2 + / - _num1 . 
_num2 d -rrb- . 
in addition , the catabolism of apoa-i in lpa-i a-ii was substantially faster than that of apoa-i in lpa-i . 
in summary , genetic syndromes of either complete or partial lcat deficiency result in low levels of hdl through preferential hypercatabolism of apoa-ii and hdl particles containing apoa-ii . 
because lpa-i has been proposed to be more protective than lpa-i a-ii against atherosclerosis , this selective effect on the metabolism of lpa-i a-ii may provide a potential explanation why patients with classic lcat deficiency and fish-eye disease are not at increased risk for premature atherosclerosis despite markedly decreased levels of hdl cholesterol and apoa-i the identical _num1 ' splice-site acceptor mutation in five attenuated apc families from newfoundland demonstrates a founder effect . 
inherited mutations of the apc gene predispose carriers to multiple adenomatous polyps of the colon and rectum and to colorectal cancer . 
mutations located at the extreme _num1 end of the apc gene , however , are associated with a less severe disease known as attenuated adenomatous polyposis coli -lrb- aapc -rrb- . 
many individuals with aapc develop relatively few colorectal polyps but are still at high risk for colorectal cancer . 
we report here the identification of a _num1 apc germline mutation in five separately ascertained aapc families from newfoundland , canada . 
this disease-causing mutation is a single basepair change -lrb- g to a -rrb- in the splice-acceptor region of apc intron _num1 that creates a mutant rna without exon _num1 of apc . 
the observation of the same apc mutation in five families from the same geographic area demonstrates a founder effect . 
furthermore , the identification of this germline mutation strengthens the correlation between the _num1 location of an apc disease-causing mutation and the attenuated polyposis phenotype . . 
linkage of aspartylglucosaminuria -lrb- agu -rrb- to marker loci on the long arm of chromosome _num1 . 
aspartylglucosaminuria -lrb- agu -rrb- is caused by deficient activity of the enzyme aspartylglucosaminidase -lrb- _ds -rrb- . 
the structural gene for _ds has been assigned to the region 4q21-qter of chromosome _num1 . 
we have studied the map position of the agu locus in relation to other marker loci on the long arm of chromosome _num1 using linkage analyses . 
restriction fragment length polymorphism alleles for the adh2 , adh3 , egf , fg alpha and fg beta loci and blood group antigens for the mns locus were determined in a panel of _num2 finnish agu families . 
the heterozygous family members were identified by reduced activity of _ds in lymphocytes . 
linkage studies were performed using both pairwise and multipoint analyses . 
loose linkage of the agu locus to the fg and mns loci was observed -lrb- z = _num1 . 
_num2 , z = _num1 . 
_num2 , respectively -rrb- . 
multipoint analysis to the fixed map -lsb- adh - -lrb- _num1 . 
_num2 -rrb- - egf - -lrb- _num1 . 
_num2 -rrb- - fg - -lrb- _num1 . 
_num2 -rrb- - mns -rsb- suggests that the location of the agu locus is _num1 . 
05-0 . 
_num2 recombination units distal to mns -lrb- z = _num1 . 
_num2 -rrb- . 
the order cen-adh-egf-fg-mns-agu is _num2 times more likely than the next best order cen-adh-egf-agu-fg-mns . 
linkage analysis in x-linked adrenoleukodystrophy and application in post - and prenatal diagnosis . 
we have performed linkage analysis with the dna markers dxs52 and the clotting factor viii gene -lrb- f8c -rrb- , in several large families with x-linked adrenoleukodystrophy -lrb- ald -rrb- . 
the tight linkage to dxs52 could be extended giving a maximal lod score of _num2 . 
_num1 at _num1 cm . 
f8c was also tightly linked to ald with a maximal lod score of _num1 . 
_num1 without recombination . 
multipoint linkage analysis with the markers dxs304 , dxs52 , and f8c indicated that both the gene for ald and for f8c are distal to dxs52 . 
in four patients with ald , no major structural rearrangement in the xqter region was observed ; in particular , there were no abnormalities in the vision blindness genes . 
dna analysis appeared to be of use in determination of the carrier status of females at risk , for the determination of the origin of the mutation in a particular family , and for prenatal diagnosis . 
multicentric origin of hemochromatosis gene -lrb- hfe -rrb- mutations . 
genetic hemochromatosis -lrb- gh -rrb- is believed to be a disease restricted to those of european ancestry . 
in northwestern europe , > _num2 % of gh patients are homozygous for one mutation , the substitution of tyrosine for cysteine at position _num3 -lrb- c282y -rrb- in the unprocessed protein . 
in a proportion of gh patients , two mutations are present , c282y and h63d . 
the clinical significance of this second mutation is such that it appears to predispose _num1 % -2 % of compound heterozygotes to expression of the disease . 
the distribution of the two mutations differ , c282y being limited to those of northwestern european ancestry and h63d being found at allele frequencies > _num1 % , in europe , in countries bordering the mediterranean , in the middle east , and in the indian subcontinent . 
the c282y mutation occurs on a haplotype that extends < / = _num1 mb , suggesting that this mutation has arisen during the past _num1 , _num3 years . 
the h63d mutation is older and does not occur on such a large extended haplotype , the haplotype in this case extending < / = _num3 kb . 
here we report the finding of the h63d and c282y mutations on new haplotypes . 
in sri lanka we have found h63d on three new haplotypes and have found c282y on one new haplotype , demonstrating that these mutations have arisen independently on this island . 
these results suggest that the hfe gene has been the subject of selection pressure . 
these selection pressures could be due to infectious diseases , environmental conditions , or other genetic disorders such as anemia . 
identification and localization of mutations at the lesch-nyhan locus by ribonuclease a cleavage . 
many mutations leading to human disease are the result of single dna base pair changes that can not be identified by southern analysis . 
this has prompted the development of alternative assays for point mutation detection . 
the recently described ribonuclease a cleavage procedure , with a polyuridylic acid-paper affinity chromatography step , has been used to identify the mutational lesions in the hypoxanthine phosphoribosyltransferase -lrb- hprt -rrb- messenger rnas of patients with lesch-nyhan syndrome . 
distinctive ribonuclease a cleavage patterns were identified in messenger rna from _num1 of _num2 lesch-nyhan patients who were chosen because no hprt southern or northern blotting pattern changes had been found . 
this approach now allows hprt mutation detection in _num2 percent of the cases of lesch-nyhan syndrome . 
the polyuridylic acid-paper affinity procedure provides a general method for analysis of low abundance messenger rnas . . 
mefv-gene analysis in armenian patients with familial mediterranean fever : diagnostic value and unfavorable renal prognosis of the m694v homozygous genotype-genetic and therapeutic implications . 
familial mediterranean fever -lrb- fmf -rrb- is a recessively inherited disorder that is common in patients of armenian ancestry . 
to date , its diagnosis , which can be made only retrospectively , is one of exclusion , based entirely on nonspecific clinical signs that result from serosal inflammation and that may lead to unnecessary surgery . 
renal amyloidosis , prevented by colchicine , is the most severe complication of fmf , a disorder associated with mutations in the mefv gene . 
to evaluate the diagnostic and prognostic value of mefv-gene analysis , we investigated _num2 armenian fmf patients from _num2 unrelated families that were not selected through genetic-linkage analysis . 
eight mutations , one of which -lrb- r408q -rrb- is new , were found to account for _num2 % of the _num3 independent fmf alleles , with both fmf alleles identified in _num2 % of the patients . 
in several instances , family studies provided molecular evidence for pseudodominant transmission and incomplete penetrance of the disease phenotype . 
the m694v homozygous genotype was found to be associated with a higher prevalence of renal amyloidosis and arthritis , compared with other genotypes -lrb- p = . 
_num4 and p = . 
_num3 , respectively -rrb- . 
the demonstration of both the diagnostic and prognostic value of mefv analysis and particular modes of inheritance should lead to new ways for management of fmf-including genetic counseling and therapeutic decisions in affected families . 
identification and localization of huntingtin in brain and human lymphoblastoid cell lines with anti-fusion protein antibodies . 
the huntington disease -lrb- hd -rrb- phenotype is associated with expansion of a trinucleotide repeat in the it15 gene , which is predicted to encode a 348-kda protein named huntington . 
we used polyclonal and monoclonal anti-fusion protein antibodies to identify native huntingtin in rat , monkey , and human . 
western blots revealed a protein with the expected molecular weight which is present in the soluble fraction of rat and monkey brain tissues and lymphoblastoid cells from control cases . 
in lymphoblastoid cell lines from juvenile-onset heterozygote hd cases , both normal and mutant huntingtin are expressed , and increasing repeat expansion leads to lower levels of the mutant protein . 
immunocytochemistry indicates that huntingtin is located in neurons throughout the brain , with the highest levels evident in larger neurons . 
in the human striatum , huntingtin is enriched in a patch-like distribution , potentially corresponding to the first areas affected in hd . 
subcellular localization of huntingtin is consistent with a cytosolic protein primarily found in somatodendritic regions . 
huntingtin appears to particularly associate with microtubules , although some is also associated with synaptic vesicles . 
on the basis of the localization of huntingtin in association with microtubules , we speculate that the mutation impairs the cytoskeletal anchoring or transport of mitochondria , vesicles , or other organelles or molecules . . 
correlation between the location of germ-line mutations in the apc gene and the number of colorectal polyps in familial adenomatous polyposis patients . 
recently we have isolated the adenomatous polyposis coli -lrb- apc -rrb- gene which causes familial adenomatous polyposis -lrb- fap -rrb- , and its germ-line mutations in a substantial number of fap patients have been identified . 
on the basis of this information , we compared the location of germ-line mutations in the apc gene in _num2 unrelated patients -lrb- _num2 of whom have been reported previously -rrb- with the number of colorectal polyps developed in fap patients ; _num2 were sparse types and five were profuse types . 
all but one of the mutations were considered to cause truncation of the gene product by frame-shift due to deletion -lrb- _num2 cases -rrb- or nonsense mutation -lrb- seven cases -rrb- . 
the location of the germ-line mutations seems to correlate with the two clinical types ; germ-line mutations in five fap patients with profuse polyps were observed between codon _num4 and codon _num4 , whereas mutations in _num2 fap patients with fewer polyps were observed in the other regions of the apc gene . 
the result suggests that the number of colorectal polyps in fap patients may be associated with a difference in the stability or biological function of the truncated apc protein . . 
duchenne / becker muscular dystrophy : correlation of phenotype by electroretinography with sites of dystrophin mutations . 
the dark-adapted electroretinogram -lrb- erg -rrb- of patients with duchenne and becker muscular dystrophy -lrb- dmd / bmd -rrb- shows a marked reduction in b-wave amplitude . 
genotype-phenotype studies of mouse models for dmd show position-specific effects of the mutations upon the phenotype mice with _num1 defects of dystrophin have normal ergs , those with defects in the central region have a normal b-wave amplitude associated with prolonged implicit times for both the b-wave and oscillatory potentials , and mice with _num1 defects have a phenotype similar to that seen in dmd / bmd patients . 
the mouse studies suggest a key role for the carboxyl terminal dystrophin isoform , dp260 , in retinal electrophysiology . 
we have undertaken a systematic evaluation of dmd / bmd patients through clinical examination and review of the literature in order to determine whether the position-specific effects of mutations noted in the mouse are present in man . 
we have found that , in man , a wider variation of dmd defects correlate with reductions in the b-wave amplitude . 
individuals with normal ergs have mutations predominantly located _num1 of the transcript initiation site of dp260 . 
our results suggest that the most important determinant in the erg b-wave phenotype is the mutation position , rather than muscle disease severity . 
forty-six per cent of patients with mutations _num1 of the dp260 transcript start site have abnormal ergs , as opposed to _num2 % with more distal mutations . 
the human genotype-phenotype correlations are consistent with a role for dp260 in normal retinal electrophysiology and may also reflect the expression of other c-terminal dystrophin isoforms and their contributions to retinal signal transmission . . 
molecular characterization of two galactosemia mutations and one polymorphism : implications for structure-function analysis of human galactose-1-phosphate uridyltransferase . 
we report here the molecular characterization of two galactosemia mutations , l74p and f171s , and one polymorphism , s135l , in human galactose-1-phosphate uridyltransferase -lrb- galt -rrb- . 
both galactosemia mutations result in reduced enzymatic activity when reconstructed in the cdna and overexpressed . 
the polymorphism , in contrast , has near normal activity . 
both mutations affect evolutionarily conserved residues , suggesting that they are functionally important , while the polymorphism occurs in a nonconserved domain which is presumably not critical for enzymatic function . 
the f171s mutation is close to the putative active-site nucleophile . 
our data further support the notion of molecular heterogeneity of galactosemia and suggest that galactosemia mutations and galt polymorphisms may be useful tools in highlighting different functional domains in human galt . . 
gaucher disease : the origins of the ashkenazi jewish n370s and 84gg acid beta-glucosidase mutations . 
type _num1 gaucher disease -lrb- gd -rrb- , a non-neuronopathic lysosomal storage disorder , results from the deficient activity of acid beta-glucosidase -lrb- gba -rrb- . 
type _num1 disease is panethnic but is more prevalent in individuals of ashkenazi jewish -lrb- aj -rrb- descent . 
of the causative gba mutations , n370s is particularly frequent in the aj population , -lrb- q approximately . 
_num2 -rrb- , whereas the 84gg insertion -lrb- q approximately . 
_num3 -rrb- occurs exclusively in the ashkenazim . 
to investigate the genetic history of these mutations in the aj population , short tandem repeat -lrb- str -rrb- markers were used to map a _num1 . 
3-cm region containing the gba locus and to genotype _num3 aj n370s chromosomes , _num2 european non-jewish n370s chromosomes , and _num2 aj 84gg chromosomes . 
a highly conserved haplotype at four markers flanking gba -lrb- pklr , d1s1595 , d1s2721 , and d1s2777 -rrb- was observed on both the aj chromosomes and the non-jewish n370s chromosomes , suggesting the occurrence of a founder common to both populations . 
of note , the presence of different divergent haplotypes suggested the occurrence of de novo , recurrent n370s mutations . 
in contrast , a different conserved haplotype at these markers was identified on the 84gg chromosomes , which was unique to the aj population . 
on the basis of the linkage disequilibrium -lrb- ld -rrb- delta values , the non-jewish european n370s chromosomes had greater haplotype diversity and less ld at the markers flanking the conserved haplotype than did the aj n370s chromosomes . 
this finding is consistent with the presence of the n370s mutation in the non-jewish european population prior to the founding of the aj population . 
coalescence analyses for the n370s and 84gg mutations estimated similar coalescence times , of _num2 and _fn generations ago , respectively . 
the results of these studies are consistent with a significant bottleneck occurring in the aj population during the first millennium , when the population became established in europe . 
investigation of thermoregulatory characteristics in patients with prader-willi syndrome . 
a survey instrument is used to assess temperature regulation characteristics in children with prader-willi syndrome -lrb- pws -rrb- compared to _num1 control groups sibs of pws patients -lrb- sib -rrb- , neurodevelopmentally handicapped children -lrb- nd -rrb- , and age and gender matched well children -lrb- wc -rrb- . 
significant differences were found between pws patients , sib controls , and wc controls in the prevalence of febrile convulsions , fever-associated symptoms , and temperature less than _num2 degrees f. no differences were noted in any variable between the pws patients and the nd controls , suggesting that these abnormalities are not unique to pws , but can occur in any neurodevelopmentally handicapped individual , further suggesting these do not necessarily reflect syndrome-specific hypothalamic abnormalities . . 
abnormal high density lipoproteins in cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis . 
the plasma lipoprotein profiles and high density lipoproteins -lrb- hdl -rrb- were characterized in patients with the genetic disease cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis -lrb- ctx -rrb- . 
abnormalities in the hdl may contribute to their increased atherogenesis and excessive deposits of tissue sterols in the presence of low or low-normal concentrations of plasma cholesterol -lrb- _num3 + / - _num2 mg / dl -rrb- and low density lipoproteins -lrb- ldl -rrb- . 
the mean hdl-cholesterol concentration in the ctx plasmas was _num2 . 
_num1 + / - _num1 . 
_num1 mg / dl , about one-third the normal value . 
the low hdl-cholesterol reflects a low concentration and an abnormal lipid composition of the plasma hdl . 
relative to normal hdl , the cholesteryl esters are low , free cholesterol and phospholipids essentially normal , and triglycerides increased . 
the ratio of apoprotein -lrb- apo -rrb- to total cholesterol in the hdl of ctx was two to three times greater than normal . 
in the ctx hdl , the ratio of apoai to apoaii was high , the proportion of apoc low , and a normally minor form of apoai increased relative to other forms . 
the hdl in electron micrographs appeared normal morphologically and in particle size . 
the abnormalities in lipoprotein distribution profile and composition of the plasma hdl result from metabolic defects that are not understood but may be linked to the genetic defect in bile acid synthesis in ctx . 
as a consequence , it is probable that the normal functions of the hdl , possibly including modulation of ldl-cholesterol uptake and the removal of excess cholesterol from peripheral tissues , are perturbed significantly in this disease . 
splicing defects in the ataxia-telangiectasia gene , atm : underlying mutations and consequences . 
mutations resulting in defective splicing constitute a significant proportion -lrb- 30 / 62 -lsb- _num2 % -rsb- -rrb- of a new series of mutations in the atm gene in patients with ataxia-telangiectasia -lrb- _ds -rrb- that were detected by the protein-truncation assay followed by sequence analysis of genomic dna . 
fewer than half of the splicing mutations involved the canonical _ds splice-acceptor site or _ds splice-donor site . 
a higher percentage of mutations occurred at less stringently conserved sites , including silent mutations of the last nucleotide of exons , mutations in nucleotides other than the conserved _ds and _ds in the consensus splice sites , and creation of splice-acceptor or splice-donor sites in either introns or exons . 
these splicing mutations led to a variety of consequences , including exon skipping and , to a lesser degree , intron retention , activation of cryptic splice sites , or creation of new splice sites . 
in addition , _num1 of _num2 nonsense mutations and _num1 missense mutation were associated with deletion in the cdna of the exons in which the mutations occurred . 
no atm protein was detected by western blotting in any _ds cell line in which splicing mutations were identified . 
several cases of exon skipping in both normal controls and patients for whom no underlying defect could be found in genomic dna were also observed , suggesting caution in the interpretation of exon deletions observed in atm cdna when there is no accompanying identification of genomic mutations . . 
mutations of the cathepsin c gene are responsible for papillon-lefevre syndrome . 
papillon-lefevre syndrome -lrb- pls -rrb- is an autosomal recessive disorder characterised by palmoplantar hyperkeratosis and severe early onset periodontitis that results in the premature loss of the primary and secondary dentitions . 
a major gene locus for pls has been mapped to a _num1 . 
_num1 cm interval on chromosome 11q14 . 
correlation of physical and genetic maps of this interval indicate it includes at least _num2 ests and six known genes including the lysosomal protease cathepsin c gene -lrb- ctsc -rrb- . 
the ctsc message is expressed at high levels in a variety of immune cells including polymorphonuclear leucocytes , macrophages , and their precursors . 
by rt-pcr , we found ctsc is also expressed in epithelial regions commonly affected by pls , including the palms , soles , knees , and oral keratinised gingiva . 
the _num1 . 
_num1 kb ctsc gene consists of two exons . 
sequence analysis of ctsc from subjects affected with pls from five consanguineous turkish families identified four different mutations . 
an exon _num1 nonsense mutation -lrb- 856c -- > t -rrb- introduces a premature stop codon at amino acid _num3 . 
three exon _num1 mutations were identified , including a single nucleotide deletion -lrb- 2692dela -rrb- of codon _num3 introducing a frameshift and premature termination codon , a _num1 bp deletion -lrb- 2673-2674delct -rrb- that results in introduction of a stop codon at amino acid _num3 , and a g -- > a substitution in codon _num3 -lrb- 2931g -- > a -rrb- introducing a premature termination codon . 
all pls patients were homozygous for cathepsin c mutations inherited from a common ancestor . 
parents and sibs heterozygous for cathepsin c mutations do not show either the palmoplantar hyperkeratosis or severe early onset periodontitis characteristic of pls . 
a more complete understanding of the functional physiology of cathepsin c carries significant implications for understanding normal and abnormal skin development and periodontal disease susceptibility identification of a single nucleotide change in the hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase gene -lrb- hprtyale -rrb- responsible for lesch-nyhan syndrome . 
complete deficiency of hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase -lrb- hprt -rrb- causes the lesch-nyhan syndrome . 
previous characterization of a mutant form of hprt , hprtyale , from a subject with the lesch-nyhan syndrome revealed normal mrna and protein concentrations , no residual catalytic activity , and cathodal migration upon page . 
we have cloned and sequenced hprtyale cdna . 
the nucleotide sequence of full-length hprtyale cdna revealed a single nucleotide substitution compared with normal hprt cdna g -- c at nucleotide position _num3 . 
this transversion predicts substitution of arginine for glycine at amino acid position _num2 , explaining the cathodal migration of hprtyale . 
chou-fasman secondary structure analysis predicts a change in the probability of beta-turn formation in the region containing the mutation . 
inclusion of the bulky arginine side chain in place of glycine probably disrupts protein folding as well . 
cloning mutant forms of cdna allows identification of specific mutations , provides insight into mutational mechanisms , and facilitates structure-function analysis of mutant proteins . . 
molecular detection of chromosomal translocations that disrupt the putative retinoblastoma susceptibility locus . 
a candidate dna sequence with many of the properties predicted for the retinoblastoma susceptibility -lrb- rb1 -rrb- locus has been cloned -lrb- s. h. friend , r. bernards , s. rogelj , r. a. weinberg , j. m. rapaport , d. m. albert , and t. p. dryja , nature -lsb- london -rsb- _num3 643-645 , _num4 -rrb- . 
the large size of this gene -lrb- ca. _num3 kilobases -lsb- kb -rsb- -rrb- and its multiple dispersed exons -lrb- wiggs et al. , n. engl . 
j. med . 
_num3 151-157 , _num4 -rrb- complicate molecular screening strategies important in prenatal and presymptomatic diagnosis and in carrier detection . 
here we used field inversion gel electrophoresis -lrb- fige -rrb- to construct a restriction map of approximately _num1 , _num3 kb of dna surrounding the rb1 locus and to detect the translocation breakpoints in three retinoblastoma patients . 
dna probes from either the _num1 or _num1 end of the gene were used to detect a 250-kb eagi restriction fragment in dna from unaffected individuals . 
both probes identified an additional hybridizing fragment in the dna from each patient , permitting the breakpoints in all three to be mapped within the cloned rb1 gene . 
analysis of the breakpoint in one translocation cell line allowed the rb1 gene to be oriented with its _num1 end toward the centromere . 
the _num1 end of the gene also appeared to be associated with a clustering of sites for several infrequently cleaving restriction enzymes , indicating the presence of an hpaii tiny fragment island . 
the detection and mapping of the translocation breakpoints of all three retinoblastoma patients to within the putative rb1 gene substantiated the authenticity of this candidate sequence and demonstrated the utility of fige in detecting chromosomal rearrangements affecting this locus . 
constitutional mutations in the wt1 gene in patients with denys-drash syndrome . 
the denys-drash syndrome is characterised by a typical nephropathy , genital abnormalities and also predisposes to the development of wilms tumor . 
these patients eventually go into end stage renal failure . 
a candidate wilms tumor gene , wt1 , from the 11p13 chromosome region has recently been cloned . 
we have analysed the dna sequence in constitutional cells from eight patients and have shown heterozygous mutations in six of them . 
four of the mutations were in exon _num1 , all resulting in missense mutations . 
three were at nucleotide position _num4 resulting in an arg > trp amino acid change . 
the other was at position _num4 converting an asp > asn in the predicted resultant protein . 
one patient had a missense mutation in exon _num1 , converting an arg > his . 
a single base pair insertion at nucleotide position _num3 in exon _num1 resulted in the generation of a premature stop codon in the last patient . 
we were unable to find a mutation in one patient despite complete sequencing of the genomic sequence of the gene . 
the last patient carried a constitutional deletion of the 11p13 region and no additional mutation was found . 
there was no obvious correlation between the type of mutation and phenotypic expression . 
these results further demonstrate that the wt1 gene is important in both the development of the kidney and the genito-urinary system . . 
four novel pepd alleles causing prolidase deficiency . 
mutations at the pepd locus cause prolidase deficiency -lrb- mckusick _num6 -rrb- , a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by iminodipeptiduria , skin ulcers , mental retardation , and recurrent infections . 
four pepd mutations from five severely affected individuals were characterized by analysis of reverse-transcribed , pcr-amplified -lrb- rt-pcr -rrb- cdna . 
we used sscp analysis on four overlapping cdna fragments covering the entire coding region of the pepd gene and detected abnormal sscp bands for the fragment spanning all or part of exons 13-15 in three of the probands . 
direct sequencing of the mutant cdnas showed a g -- > a , _num4 substitution -lrb- g448r -rrb- in two patients and a 3-bp deletion -lrb- delta _an or delta _an -rrb- in another . 
in the other two probands the amplified products were of reduced size . 
direct sequencing of these mutant cdnas revealed a deletion of exon _num1 in one patient and of exon _num1 in the other . 
intronic sequences flanking exons _num1 and _num1 were identified using inverse pcr followed by direct sequencing . 
conventional pcr and direct sequencing then established the intron-exon borders of the mutant genomic dna revealing two splice acceptor mutations a g -- > c substitution at position -1 of intron _num1 and an a -- > g substitution at position -2 of intron _num1 . 
our results indicate that the severe form of prolidase deficiency is caused by multiple pepd alleles . 
in this report we attempt to begin the process of describing these alleles and cataloging their phenotypic expression . . 
translocation t -lrb- _num1 ; _num2 -rrb- -lrb- _an .1 ; _an -rrb- associated with familial isolated aniridia . 
a father and daughter with isolated aniridia were observed to have an apparently balanced , reciprocal translocation involving chromosomes _num1 and _num2 -lsb- t -lrb- _num1 ; _num2 -rrb- -lrb- _an . 
_num1 ; _an -rrb- -rsb- . 
no other clinical characteristics often associated with the deletion of 11p13 were observed in this family . 
this finding , in association with _num1 other instances of single breaks at 11p13 and aniridia , supports the assignment of an2 to 11p13 . 
genotype-phenotype analysis in x-linked emery-dreifuss muscular dystrophy and identification of a missense mutation associated with a milder phenotype . 
direct sequencing of the emerin gene in _num2 families with emery-dreifuss muscular dystrophy -lrb- emd -rrb- revealed mutations in _num2 -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- , confirming that emerin mutations can be identified in the majority of families with x-linked emd . 
most emerin mutations result in absence of the protein . 
in this study three mutations -lrb- a missense mutation pro183thr and two in-frame deletions removing residues 95-99 and 236-241 , respectively -rrb- were unusual in being associated with expression of mutant protein . 
the phenotype in these families was compared in detail with the clinical features in cases with typical null mutations . 
for the in-frame deletions there were no significant differences . 
in the family with the missense mutation the phenotype was milder . 
age at onset was later for first symptoms and for development of ankle contractures and muscle weakness . 
these findings have diagnostic implications as well as pointing to functionally important regions of the emerin protein . . 
asef , a link between the tumor suppressor apc and g-protein signaling . 
the adenomatous polyposis coli gene -lrb- apc -rrb- is mutated in familial adenomatous polyposis and in sporadic colorectal tumors . 
here the apc gene product is shown to bind through its armadillo repeat domain to a rac-specific guanine nucleotide exchange factor -lrb- gef -rrb- , termed asef . 
endogenous apc colocalized with asef in mouse colon epithelial cells and neuronal cells . 
furthermore , apc enhanced the gef activity of asef and stimulated asef-mediated cell flattening , membrane ruffling , and lamellipodia formation in mdck cells . 
these results suggest that the apc-asef complex may regulate the actin cytoskeletal network , cell morphology and migration , and neuronal function . . 
localization of the region homologous to the duchenne muscular dystrophy locus on the mouse x chromosome . 
recent progress has resulted in part of the gene mutated in duchenne and the milder becker muscular dystrophies being cloned and has suggested that the gene itself extends over _num1 , _num3 to _num1 , _num3 kilobases -lrb- kb -rrb- . 
to study how mutations in this gene affect muscle development and integrity , it would be of interest to have available a mouse model of the human disease . 
the mouse mdx mutation affects muscle and confers a mild dystrophic syndrome , but it is not clear whether this mutation is equivalent to duchenne / becker muscular dystrophy in man . 
here we describe the use of two sequences from the human duchenne muscular dystrophy -lrb- dmd -rrb- gene that cross-hybridize to mouse x-linked sequences to localize the gene homologous to dmd in the mouse . 
both sequences map to the region of _num2 centimorgan lying between the tabby -lrb- ta -rrb- and st14-1 -lrb- dxpas8 -rrb- loci , close to the phosphorylase b kinase locus -lrb- phk -rrb- . 
by analogy with the human x-chromosome , we conclude that the region in the mouse around the g6pd and st14-1 loci may contain two genes corresponding to distinct human myopathies emery dreifuss muscular dystrophy which is known to be closely linked to st14-1 in man and the dmd homologue described here . . 
molecular basis of hexosaminidase a deficiency and pseudodeficiency in the berks county pennsylvania dutch . 
following the birth of two infants with tay-sachs disease -lrb- tsd -rrb- , a non-jewish , pennsylvania dutch kindred was screened for tsd carriers using the biochemical assay . 
a high frequency of individuals who appeared to be tsd heterozygotes was detected -lrb- kelly et al. , _num4 -rrb- . 
clinical and biochemical evidence suggested that the increased carrier frequency was due to at least two altered alleles for the hexosaminidase a alpha-subunit . 
we now report two mutant alleles in this pennsylvania dutch kindred , and one polymorphism . 
one allele , reported originally in a french tsd patient -lrb- akli et al. , _num4 -rrb- , is a _ds -- > _ds transition at the donor splice-site of intron _num1 . 
the second , a c -- > t transition at nucleotide _num3 -lrb- arg247trp -rrb- , has been shown by triggs-raine et al. -lrb- _num4 -rrb- to be a clinically benign '' pseudodeficient '' allele associated with reduced enzyme activity against artificial substrate . 
finally , a polymorphism -lsb- g -- > a -lrb- _num3 -rrb- -rsb- , which leaves valine at codon _num3 unchanged , is described . 
gene transfer and expression of human phenylalanine hydroxylase . 
phenylketonuria -lrb- pku -rrb- is caused by a genetic deficiency of the enzyme phenylalanine hydroxylase -lrb- pah -rrb- . 
a full-length complementary dna clone of human pah was inserted into a eukaryotic expression vector and transferred into mouse nih3t3 cells which do not normally express pah . 
the transformed mouse cells expressed pah messenger rna , immunoreactive protein , and enzymatic activity that are characteristic of the normal human liver products , demonstrating that a single gene contains all of the necessary genetic information to code for functional pah . 
these results support the use of the human pah probe in prenatal diagnosis and detection of carriers , to provide new opportunities for the biochemical characterization of normal and mutant enzymes , and in the investigation of alternative genetic therapies for pku . . 
macular dystrophy associated with mutations at codon _num3 in the human retinal degeneration slow gene . 
background recently , mutations in the retinal degeneration slow -lrb- rds -rrb- gene which codes for peripherin-rds have been implicated as a cause of autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa . 
because this gene is expressed in both rods and cones , mutations in the rds gene might be expected to cause degeneration affecting either the scotopic or photopic systems . 
mutations at codon _num3 of the rds gene have been identified in three families with autosomal dominantly inherited , progressive macular dystrophy . 
methods affected individuals underwent ophthalmic examination , scotopic perimetry , dark adaptometry , measurement of color-contrast sensitivity , and electroretinography to characterize the photoreceptor dysfunction . 
results in all but one affected member , symptoms of progressive central visual loss developed in the third or fourth decade of life accompanied by central scotoma and well-demarcated atrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium and choriocapillaris of the macula . 
in general , cone and rod thresholds were elevated , and color-contrast sensitivity was absent in the central visual field . 
peripherally , the scotopic sensitivities were normal , as was the recovery from bleach . 
cone electroretinograms were diminished in amplitude , and delayed in all affected adults except one . 
rod electroretinograms were normal or near normal in amplitude , and had normal implicit times . 
affected asymptomatic children had macular changes , abnormal color-contrast sensitivity , and reduced pattern and cone electroretinograms . 
conclusion these results indicate that mutations in the rds gene can be expressed as a macular dystrophy , with evidence of primary cone dysfunction and preservation of peripheral rod function . . 
glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase variants : gd -lrb- + -rrb- alexandra associated with neonatal jaundice and gd -lrb- - -rrb- camperdown in a young man with lamellar cataracts . 
two male subjects are described , with unusual clinical presentations and with hitherto undescribed g6pd variants . 
the first , of italian extraction , suffered from severe neonatal jaundice following maternal ingestion of fresh broad beans -lrb- vicia fava -rrb- both prenatally and postnatally the expression of the enzymatic defect was much more severe in the neonatal period than on retesting in adolescence , when biochemical characterization showed unique features which justify designation as a new variant gd -lrb- + -rrb- alexandra . 
the second patient , a boy of maltese extraction who was found to have bilateral lamellar cataracts at the age of _num1 years , was identified as g6pd deficient only as a result of a survey of children of mediterranean origin with unexplained cataract formation ; he has approximately _num2 % of normal enzyme activity , with another unique combination of biochemical characteristics which has led to its designation as gd -lrb- - -rrb- camperdown . 
although this association may be coincidental , it prompts further attention to the possibility that under certain circumstances g6pd deficiency may favor cataract formation . 
the two cases illustrate the value of characterization of the mutant enzyme whenever unexpected clinical or laboratory results are obtained . . 
dna restriction fragments associated with alpha 1-antitrypsin indicate a single origin for deficiency allele pi z . 
the alpha 1-protease inhibitor , or alpha-antitrypsin -lrb- _ds -rrb- , a major plasma inhibitor of leukocyte elastase and bacterial proteases , is encoded at the pi locus on chromosome _num2 -lrb- 14q24 . 
3-q32 . 
_num1 -rrb- . 
a deficiency of _ds in individuals homozygous for the pi z allele occurs in about _num1 in _num1 , 000-8 , _num3 caucasians and is associated with an increased risk of early adult onset emphysema and liver disease in childhood . 
we have now used dna polymorphisms associated with the _ds gene to investigate the origin of the pi z allele . 
using two genomic probes extending into the _num1 and _num1 flanking regions , respectively , we have identified eight polymorphic restriction sites . 
extensive linkage disequilibrium occurs throughout the probed region with the pi z allele , but not with normal pi m alleles . 
the z allele occurs mainly with one haplotype , indicating a single , relatively recent , origin in caucasians myotonic dystrophy in transgenic mice expressing an expanded cug repeat . 
myotonic dystrophy -lrb- dm -rrb- , the most common form of muscular dystrophy in adult humans , results from expansion of a _ds repeat in the _num1 untranslated region of the dmpk gene . 
the mutant dmpk messenger rna -lrb- mrna -rrb- contains an expanded cug repeat and is retained in the nucleus . 
we have expressed an untranslated cug repeat in an unrelated mrna in transgenic mice . 
mice that expressed expanded cug repeats developed myotonia and myopathy , whereas mice expressing a nonexpanded repeat did not . 
thus , transcripts with expanded cug repeats are sufficient to generate a dm phenotype . 
this result supports a role for rna gain of function in disease pathogenesis . . 
submicroscopic deletion in cousins with prader-willi syndrome causes a grandmatrilineal inheritance pattern : effects of imprinting . 
the prader-willi syndrome -lrb- pws -rrb- critical region on 15q11-q13 is subject to imprinting . 
pws becomes apparent when genes on the paternally inherited chromosome are not expressed . 
familial pws is rare . 
we report on a family in which a male and a female paternal first cousin both have pws with cytogenetically normal karyotypes . 
fluorescence in situ hybridization -lrb- fish -rrb- analysis shows a submicroscopic deletion of snrpn , but not the closely associated loci d15s10 , d15s11 , d15s63 , and gabrb3 . 
the cousins fathers and two paternal aunts have the same deletion and are clinically normal . 
the grandmother of the cousins is deceased and not available for study , and their grandfather is not deleted for snrpn . 
dna methylation analysis of d15s63 is consistent with an abnormality of the imprinting center associated with pws . '' 
grandmatrilineal '' inheritance occurs when a woman with deletion of an imprinted , paternally expressed gene is at risk of having affected grandchildren through her sons . 
in this case , pws does not become evident as long as the deletion is passed through the matrilineal line . 
this represents a unique inheritance pattern due to imprinting . . 
expression and imprinting of magel2 suggest a role in prader-willi syndrome and the homologous murine imprinting phenotype . 
prader-willi syndrome -lrb- pws -rrb- is caused by the loss of expression of imprinted genes in chromosome 15q11-q13 . 
affected individuals exhibit neonatal hypotonia , developmental delay and childhood-onset obesity . 
necdin , a protein implicated in the terminal differentiation of neurons , is the only pws candidate gene to reduce viability when disrupted in a mouse model . 
in this study , we have characterized magel2 -lrb- also known as ndnl1 -rrb- , a gene with _num2 % amino acid sequence similarity to necdin and located _num2 kb distal to ndn in the pws deletion region . 
magel2 is expressed predominantly in brain , the primary tissue affected in pws and in several fetal tissues as shown by northern blot analysis . 
magel2 is imprinted with monoallelic expression in control brain , and paternal-only expression in the central nervous system as demonstrated by its lack of expression in brain from a pws affected individual . 
the orthologous mouse gene -lrb- magel2 -rrb- is located within _num3 kb of ndn , is imprinted with paternal-only expression and is expressed predominantly in late developmental stages and adult brain as shown by northern blotting , rt-pcr and whole-mount rna in situ hybridization . 
magel2 distribution partially overlaps that of ndn , with strong expression being detected in the central nervous system in mid-gestation mouse embryos by in situ hybridization . 
we hypothesize that , although loss of necdin expression may be important in the neonatal presentation of pws , loss of magel2 may be critical to abnormalities in brain development and dysmorphic features in individuals with pws . . 
a single origin of phenylketonuria in yemenite jews . 
phenylketonuria -lrb- pku -rrb- is a metabolic disease caused by recessive mutations of the gene encoding the hepatic enzyme phenylalanine hydroxylase -lrb- pah -rrb- . 
the incidence of pku varies widely across different geographic areas , and is highest -lrb- about _num1 in _num1 , _num3 live births -rrb- in ireland and western scotland , and among yemenite jews . 
a limited number of point mutations account for most of the pku cases in the european population . 
here we report that a single molecular defect -- a deletion spanning the third exon of the pah gene -- is responsible for all the pku cases among the yemenite jews . 
examination of a random sample of yemenite jews using a molecular probe that detects the carriers of this deletion indicated a high frequency of the defective gene in this community . 
although the deleted pah gene was traced to _num2 different locations throughout yemen , family histories and official documents of the yemenite jewish community showed that the common ancestor of all the carriers of this genetic defect lived in sana , the capital of yemen , before the eighteenth century . . 
high resolution genetic analysis suggests one ancestral predisposing haplotype for the origin of the myotonic dystrophy mutation . 
the mutation causing myotonic dystrophy -lrb- dm -rrb- has been identified as an amplification of an unstable trinucleotide -lrb- _ds -rrb- n repeat in over _num2 % of the global dm population . 
it is in complete linkage disequilibrium with an alu element polymorphism within the dm kinase gene , suggesting that dm is a consequence of one or few ancestral mutations . 
a recent analysis utilizing this polymorphism as well as a flanking dinucleotide marker , suggested that similar to fragile x syndrome , dm exhibited a founder effect -lrb- imbert et al. , _num4 nature genet . 
_num1 , 72-76 -rrb- . 
in contrast , the low reproductive fitness of individuals with congenital dm -lrb- the endpoint of genetic anticipation in myotonic dystrophy -rrb- suggests a higher rate of new mutations . 
we present a high resolution genetic analysis of the dm locus using pcr based assays of nine polymorphisms , spanning a physical distance of _num2 kb , within and immediately flanking the dm kinase gene . 
the persistent complete allelic association of the dm mutation with all these polymorphisms provides further support to previous observations and suggests more strongly that the dm mutation occurred on the background of a particular haplotype in which the -lrb- _ds -rrb- n repeat became inherently unstable and therefore predisposed to amplification . 
identification and rapid detection of three tay-sachs mutations in the moroccan jewish population . 
infantile tay-sachs disease -lrb- tsd -rrb- is caused by mutations in the hexa gene that result in the complete absence of beta-hexosaminidase a activity . 
it is well known that an elevated frequency of tsd mutations exists among ashkenazi jews . 
more recently it has become apparent that elevated carrier frequencies for tsd also occur in several other ethnic groups , including moroccan jews , a subgroup of sephardic jews . 
elsewhere we reported an in-frame deletion of one of the two adjacent phenylalanine codons at position _num3 or _num3 -lrb- delta f304 / 305 -rrb- in one hexa allele of a moroccan jewish tsd patient and in three obligate carriers from six unrelated moroccan jewish families . 
we have now identified two additional mutations within exon _num1 of the hexa gene that account for the remaining tsd alleles in the patient and carriers . 
one of the mutations is a novel c-to-g transversion , resulting in a replacement of tyr180 by a stop codon . 
the other mutation is a g-to-a transition resulting in an arg170-to-gln substitution . 
this mutation is at a cpg site in a japanese infant with tay-sachs disease and was described elsewhere . 
analysis of nine obligate carriers from seven unrelated families showed that four harbor the delta f304 / 305 mutation , two the arg170 -- gln mutation , and one the tyr180 -- stop mutation . 
we also have developed rapid , nonradioactive assays for the detection of each mutation , which should be helpful for carrier screening . . 
mapping of the mouse homologue of the wilson disease gene to mouse chromosome _num1 . 
atp7b , the gene altered in wilson disease -lrb- wd -rrb- patients , lies in a block of homology shared between human chromosome 13q14 and the central region of mouse chromosome _num2 . 
however , we have mapped the murine homologue of atp7b -lrb- atp7b -rrb- to mouse chromosome _num1 by somatic cell hybrid analysis . 
analysis of _num2 interspecific backcross offspring was used to position atp7b close to d8mit3 and another atpase locus , atp4b , on mouse chromosome _num1 . 
atp4b lies in 13q34 and is separated from atp7b by several loci whose mouse homologues map to mouse chromosome _num2 . 
the assignment of atp7b to mouse chromosome _num1 identifies a previously unrecognized region of homology between this chromosome and human chromosome _num2 . 
this assignment suggests a possible location for the toxic milk mutation in the mouse , which has been proposed as a homologue of wd . . 
characteristics of intergenerational contractions of the _ds repeat in myotonic dystrophy . 
in myotonic dystrophy -lrb- dm -rrb- , the size of a _ds repeat in the dm kinase gene generally increases in successive generations with clinical evidence of anticipation . 
however , there have also been cases with an intergenerational contraction of the repeat . 
we examined _num1 , _num3 dm parent-offspring pairs , of which _num2 -lrb- _num1 . 
_num1 % -rrb- showed such contractions in peripheral blood leukocytes -lrb- pbl -rrb- . 
in _num2 of the _num2 pairs , clinical data allowed an analysis of their anticipation status . 
it is surprising that anticipation occurred in _num2 -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- of these _num2 pairs , while none clearly showed a later onset of dm in the symptomatic offspring . 
the contraction occurred in _num2 -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- of _num3 paternal transmissions and in _num2 -lrb- _num1 % -rrb- of _num3 maternal transmissions . 
anticipation was observed more frequently in maternal -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- than in paternal -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- transmissions -lrb- p < . 
_num3 -rrb- . 
the parental repeat size correlated with the size of intergenerational contraction -lrb- r2 = . 
_num2 , p < < . 
_num3 -rrb- , and the slope of linear regression was steeper in paternal -lrb- - . 
_num2 -rrb- than in maternal -lrb- - . 
_num2 -rrb- transmissions -lrb- p < < . 
_num3 -rrb- . 
sixteen dm parents had multiple dm offspring with the _ds repeat contractions . 
this frequency was higher than the frequency expected from the probability of the repeat contractions -lrb- _num1 . 
_num1 % -rrb- and the size of dm sib population -lrb- _num1 . 
_num2 dm offspring per dm parent , in _num3 dm parents -rrb- . 
we conclude that -lrb- _num1 -rrb- intergenerational contractions of the _ds repeat in leukocyte dna frequently accompanies apparent anticipation , especially when dm is maternally transmitted , and -lrb- _num1 -rrb- the paternal origin of the repeat and the presence of the repeat contraction in a sibling increase the probability of the _ds repeat contraction splice-site mutation in the pds gene may result in intrafamilial variability for deafness in pendred syndrome . 
pendred syndrome is a recessive inherited disorder that consists of developmental abnormalities of the cochlea , sensorineural hearing loss , and diffuse thyroid enlargement -lrb- goiter -rrb- . 
this disorder may account for up to _num2 % of cases of hereditary deafness . 
the disease gene -lrb- pds -rrb- has been mapped to chromosome 7q22-q31 , and encodes a chloride-iodide transport protein . 
we performed mutation analysis of individual exons of the pds gene in one spanish family that shows intrafamilial variability of the deafness phenotype -lrb- two patients with profound and one with moderate-severe deafness -rrb- . 
we identified a new splice-site mutation affecting intron _num1 of the pds gene , at nucleotide position _num3 + _num1 . 
rna analysis from lymphocytes of the affected patients showed that mutation _num3 + 7a -- > g generates a new donor splice site , leading to an mrna with an insertion of six nucleotides from intron _num1 of pds . 
since the newly created donor splice site is likely to compete with the normal one , variations of the levels of normal and aberrant transcripts of the pds gene in the cochlea may explain the variability in the deafness presentation . . 
heterozygous loss of six5 in mice is sufficient to cause ocular cataracts . 
myotonic dystrophy -lrb- dm -rrb- is an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by skeletal muscle wasting , myotonia , cardiac arrhythmia , hyperinsulinaemia , mental retardation and ocular cataracts . 
the genetic defect in dm is a _ds repeat expansion located in the _num1 untranslated region of dmpk and _num1 of a homeodomain-encoding gene , six5 -lrb- formerly dmahp ; refs 2-5 -rrb- . 
there are three mechanisms by which _ds expansion can result in dm . 
first , repeat expansion may alter the processing or transport of the mutant dmpk mrna and consequently reduce dmpk levels . 
second , _ds expansion may establish a region of heterochromatin _num1 of the repeat sequence and decrease six5 transcription . 
third , toxic effects of the repeat expansion may be intrinsic to the repeated elements at the level of dna or rna -lrb- refs _num2 , _num2 -rrb- . 
previous studies have demonstrated that a dose-dependent loss of dm15 -lrb- the mouse dmpk homologue -rrb- in mice produces a partial dm phenotype characterized by decreased development of skeletal muscle force and cardiac conduction disorders . 
to test the role of six5 loss in dm , we have analysed a strain of mice in which six5 was deleted . 
our results demonstrate that the rate and severity of cataract formation is inversely related to six5 dosage and is temporally progressive . 
six5 + / - and six5 - / - mice show increased steady-state levels of the na + / k + - atpase alpha-1 subunit and decreased dm15 mrna levels . 
thus , altered ion homeostasis within the lens may contribute to cataract formation . 
as ocular cataracts are a characteristic feature of dm , these results demonstrate that decreased six5 transcription is important in the aetiology of dm . 
our data support the hypothesis that dm is a contiguous gene syndrome associated with the partial loss of both dmpk and six5 . . 
cis and trans effects of the myotonic dystrophy -lrb- dm -rrb- mutation in a cell culture model . 
the mutation causing myotonic dystrophy -lrb- dm -rrb- has been identified as a _ds expansion in the 3-untranslated region -lrb- 3-utr -rrb- of the dm protein kinase gene -lrb- dmpk -rrb- , but the mechanism -lrb- s -rrb- of pathogenesis remain unknown . 
studies using dm patient materials have often produced confusing results . 
therefore , to study the effects of the dm mutation in a controlled environment , we have established a cell culture model system using c2c12 mouse myoblasts . 
by expressing chimeric reporter constructs containing a reporter gene fused to a human dmpk 3-utr , we identified both cis and trans effects that are mediated by the dm mutation . 
our data show that a mutant dmpk 3-utr , with as few as _num2 ctgs , had a negative cis effect on protein expression and resulted in the aggregation of reporter transcripts into discrete nuclear foci . 
we determined by deletion analysis that an expanded -lrb- _ds -rrb- -lrb- n -rrb- tract alone was sufficient to mediate these cis effects . 
furthermore , in contrast to the normal dmpk 3-utr mrna , a mutant dmpk 3-utr mrna with -lrb- cug -rrb- -lrb- _num3 -rrb- selectively inhibited myogenic differentiation of c2c12 myoblasts . 
genetic analysis and the cre - loxp system were used to clearly demonstrate that the myoblast fusion defect could be rescued by eliminating the expression of the mutant dmpk 3-utr transcript . 
characterization of spontaneous deletion events mapped the inhibitory effect to the -lrb- _ds -rrb- -lrb- n -rrb- expansion and / or the _num1 end of the dmpk 3-utr . 
these results provide evidence that the dm mutation acts in cis to reduce protein production -lrb- consistent with dmpk haploinsufficiency -rrb- and in trans as a riboregulator to inhibit myogenesis . . 
intelligence quotient profile in myotonic dystrophy , intergenerational deficit , and correlation with _ds amplification . 
an abbreviated wechsler adult intelligence scale revised -lrb- wais-r -rrb- was used to assess verbal and arithmetical cognitive performance in _num2 subjects with myotonic dystrophy -lrb- dm -rrb- , covering all grades of disease severity , and _num2 controls at _num2 % risk of inheriting dm . 
scaled scores from the assessment were converted into an intelligence quotient -lrb- iq -rrb- estimation on each person . 
significant iq differences were found between -lrb- _num1 -rrb- all _num2 dm subjects -lrb- mean _num2 . 
_num1 , sd _num2 . 
_num1 -rrb- and _num2 controls -lrb- _num3 . 
_num1 , sd _num1 . 
_num1 -rrb- , with no sex differences in either group ; -lrb- _num1 -rrb- _num2 affected parents -lrb- _num2 . 
_num1 , sd _num2 . 
_num1 -rrb- and their affected children -lrb- _num2 . 
_num1 , sd _num2 . 
_num1 -rrb- , where significance was dependent on parental sex being female ; and -lrb- _num1 -rrb- _num2 pairs of affected sibs -lrb- _num2 . 
_num1 , sd _num2 . 
_num1 -rrb- and their normal sibs -lrb- _num3 . 
_num1 , sd _num1 . 
_num1 -rrb- . 
iq steadily declined as -lrb- _num1 -rrb- the age of onset of signs and symptoms decreased , and -lrb- _num1 -rrb- the _ds expansion size increased . 
the correlation appeared to be more linear with age of onset . 
the correlation of iq difference and _ds expansion difference in both the dm parent-child pairs and normal sib-affected sib pairs was poor , indicating that _ds expansion is not a reliable predictor of iq either in individual persons or families . 
further analysis of cognitive function in dm is required to clarify specific deficits characteristic of this patient group complement factor _num1 deficiency : a clinical and serological family study . 
inherited complement deficiencies are associated with a variety of connective tissue diseases . 
a family with inherited deficiency of complement factor _num1 -lrb- c2 -rrb- is described in which two family members with homozygous c2 deficiency developed cutaneous vasculitis and sicca syndrome . 
the other family members had heterozygous c2 deficiency and each member had the hla-a25 , _an , dr2 -lrb- _an -rrb- haplotype . 
the mother had seropositive rheumatoid arthritis . 
further studies showed the presence of cryoglobulins , antibodies against endothelial cells , and anticardiolipin antibodies . . 
oncogenic point mutations in exon _num2 of the rb1 gene in families showing incomplete penetrance and mild expression of the retinoblastoma phenotype . 
the retinoblastoma predisposition gene , rb1 , segregates as an autosomal dominant trait with high -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- penetrance . 
certain families , however , show an unusual low-penetrance phenotype with many individuals being unaffected , unilaterally affected , or with evidence of spontaneously regressed tumors . 
we have used single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis and pcr sequencing to study two such families . 
mutations were found in exon _num2 of rb1 in both cases . 
in one family a c -- t transition in codon _num3 converts an arginine -lrb- _ds -rrb- to a tryptophan -lrb- _ds -rrb- codon . 
in this family , incomplete penetrance and mild phenotypic expression were observed in virtually all patients , possibly indicating that single amino acid changes may modify protein structure / function such that tumorigenesis is not inevitable . 
in the second family the mutation in codon _num3 is a g -- t transversion that converts a glutamine -lrb- _ds -rrb- to a stop -lrb- _ds -rrb- codon . 
however , this mutation also occurs near a potential cryptic splice acceptor site , raising the possibility of alternative splicing resulting in a less severely disrupted protein . . 
identification of a novel r21x mutation in the liver-type arginase gene -lrb- arg1 -rrb- in four portuguese patients with argininemia . 
argininemia is a rare autossomal recessive disorder caused by deficiency in the cytosolic liver-type arginase enzyme -lrb- l-arginine urea-hydrolase ; e. c. _num1 . 
_num1 . 
_num1 . 
_num1 -rrb- . 
in order to investigate the molecular basis for argininemia in four unrelated portuguese patients -lrb- two from northern portugal and two from madeira island -rrb- we performed a dna sequence analysis of all the exons and exon / intron boundaries of the liver-type arginase gene -lrb- arg1 -rrb- . 
all patients were found to be homozygous for a newly identified c - > t transition in codon _num2 -lrb- exon _num1 -rrb- substituting arginine for a premature stop codon -lrb- r21x _ds to _ds -rrb- and generating a nlaiii restriction site . 
restriction digestion following pcr amplification of arg1 exon _num1 confirmed the presence of the mutation . 
a mutation in the pleckstrin homology -lrb- ph -rrb- domain of the fgd1 gene in an italian family with faciogenital dysplasia -lrb- aarskog-scott syndrome -rrb- . 
aarskog-scott syndrome -lrb- aas -rrb- is an x-linked disorder characterised by short stature and multiple facial , limb and genital abnormalities . 
a gene , fgd1 , altered in a patient with aas phenotype , has been identified and found to encode a protein with homology to rho / rac guanine nucleotide exchange factors -lrb- rho / rac gef -rrb- . 
however , since this original report on identification of a mutated fgd1 gene in an aas patient , no additional mutations in the fgd1 gene have been described . 
we analysed _num2 independent patients with clinical diagnosis of aas . 
one patient presented a mutation that results in a nucleotide change in exon _num2 of the fgd1 gene -lrb- _an > a -rrb- substituting a gln for arg in position _num3 . 
the mutation was found to segregate with the aas phenotype in affected males and carrier females in the family of this patient . 
interestingly , arg-610 is located within one of the two pleckstrin homology -lrb- ph -rrb- domains of the fgd1 gene and it corresponds to a highly conserved residue which has been involved in insp binding in ph domains of other proteins . 
the same residue is often mutated in the brutons tyrosine kinase -lrb- btk -rrb- gene in patients with an x-linked agammaglobulinemia . 
the arg610gln mutation represents the first case of a mutation in the ph domain of the fgd1 gene and additional evidence that mutations in ph domains can be associated to human diseases . . 
localization of histidase to human chromosome region 12q22 -- _an .1 and mouse chromosome region 10c2 -- d1 . 
the human gene for histidase -lrb- histidine ammonia-lyase ; hal -rrb- , the enzyme deficient in histidinemia , was assigned to human chromosome _num2 by southern blot analysis of human x mouse somatic cell hybrid dna . 
the gene was sublocalized to region 12q22 -- _an . 
_num1 by in situ hybridization , using a human histidase cdna . 
the homologous locus in the mouse -lrb- hal -rrb- was mapped to region 10c2 -- d1 by in situ hybridization , using a cell line from a mouse homozygous for a _num1 . 
_num2 robertsonian translocation . 
these assignments extend the conserved syntenic region between human chromosome _num2 and mouse chromosome _num2 that includes the genes for phenylalanine hydroxylase , gamma interferon , peptidase , and citrate synthase . 
the localization of histidase to mouse chromosome _num2 suggests that the histidase regulatory locus -lrb- hsd -rrb- and the histidinemia mutation -lrb- his -rrb- , which are both known to be on chromosome _num2 , may be alleles of the histidase structural gene locus . 
noninvasive test for fragile x syndrome , using hair root analysis . 
identification of the fmr1 gene and the repeat-amplification mechanism causing fragile x syndrome led to development of reliable dna-based diagnostic methods , including southern blot hybridization and pcr . 
both methods are performed on dna isolated from peripheral blood cells and measure the repeat size in fmr1 . 
using an immunocytochemical technique on blood smears , we recently developed a novel test for identification of patients with fragile x syndrome . 
this method , also called '' antibody test , '' uses monoclonal antibodies against the fmr1 gene product -lrb- fmrp -rrb- and is based on absence of fmrp in patients cells . 
here we describe a new diagnostic test to identify male patients with fragile x syndrome , on the basis of lack of fmrp in their hair roots . 
expression of fmrp in hair roots was studied by use of an fmrp-specific antibody test , and the percentage of fmrp-expressing hair roots in controls and in male fragile x patients was determined . 
control individuals showed clear expression of fmrp in nearly every hair root , whereas male fragile x patients lacked expression of fmrp in almost all their hair roots . 
mentally retarded female patients with a full mutation showed fmrp expression in only some of their hair roots -lrb- < _num2 % -rrb- , and no overlap with normal female controls was observed . 
the advantages of this test are -lrb- _num1 -rrb- plucking of hair follicles does no appreciable harm to the mentally retarded patient , -lrb- _num1 -rrb- hairs can be sent in a simple envelope to a diagnostic center , and -lrb- _num1 -rrb- the result of the test is available within _num1 h of plucking . 
in addition , this test enabled us to identify two fragile x patients who did not show the full mutation by analysis of dna isolated from blood cells . . 
pelizaeus-merzbacher disease : detection of mutations thr181 -- pro and leu223 -- pro in the proteolipid protein gene , and prenatal diagnosis . 
a family with an apparent history of x-linked pelizaeus-merzbacher disease presented for genetic counseling , requesting carrier detection and prenatal diagnosis . 
rflp analysis using the proteolipid protein -lrb- plp -rrb- gene probe was uninformative in this family . 
a prenatal diagnosis on a chorionic villus sample -lrb- cvs -rrb- was carried out using single-strand conformation polymorphism -lrb- sscp -rrb- analysis of a variant in exon _num1 of the plp gene . 
the fetus was predicted to be unaffected . 
sequencing of the exon from the cvs , the predicted-carrier mother , and the obligate-carrier grandmother revealed an a-to-c change at nucleotide _num3 in the two women but not in the fetus . 
as this change results in a thr-to-pro change at amino acid _num3 in a region of the gene predicted to be part of a transmembrane segment , it was concluded that this was the mutation causing the disease in this family . 
in addition , in a second family , an exon _num1 variant band pattern on sscp analysis was shown by sequencing to be due to a t-to-c change at nucleotide _num3 . 
this results in a leu-to-pro change in a carrier mother and in her two affected sons . 
these results provide further examples of mutations in plp that cause pelizaeus-merzbacher disease and illustrate the value of sscp in genetic analysis . . 
a normal male with an inherited deletion of one exon within the dmd gene . 
we describe two brothers with identical inherited deletions of one single exon within the middle of the dmd gene ; one brother has becker muscular dystrophy diagnosed at _num2 years of age , whereas the older brother is normal at _num2 . 
these results have implications for genetic counselling and prenatal diagnosis in families with becker muscular dystrophy . . 
small deletions in the type ii collagen triple helix produce kniest dysplasia . 
kniest dysplasia is a moderately severe type ii collagenopathy , characterized by short trunk and limbs , kyphoscoliosis , midface hypoplasia , severe myopia , and hearing loss . 
mutations in the gene that encodes type ii collagen -lrb- col2a1 -rrb- , the predominant protein of cartilage , have been identified in a number of individuals with kniest dysplasia . 
all but two of these previously described mutations cause in-frame deletions in type ii collagen , either by small deletions in the gene or splice site alterations . 
furthermore , all but one of these mutations is located between exons _num2 and _num2 in the col2a1 gene . 
we used heteroduplex analysis to identify sequence anomalies in five individuals with kniest dysplasia . 
sequencing of the index patients genomic dna identified four new dominant mutations in col2a1 that result in kniest dysplasia a 21-bp deletion in exon _num2 , an 18-bp deletion in exon _num2 , and 4-bp deletions in the splice donor sites of introns _num2 and _num2 . 
a previously described 28-bp deletion at the col2a1 exon 12-intron _num2 junction , deleting the splice donor site , was identified in the fifth case . 
the latter three mutations are predicted to result in exon skipping in the mrna encoded from the mutant allele . 
these data suggest that kniest dysplasia results from shorter type ii collagen monomers , and support the hypothesis that alteration of a specific col2a1 domain , which may span from exons _num2 to _num2 , leads to the kniest dysplasia phenotype . . 
adenomatous polyposis coli and a cytogenetic deletion of chromosome _num1 resulting from a maternal intrachromosomal insertion . 
we present the clinical and laboratory findings in an institutionalised adult patient originally referred for autism . 
a high risk of colorectal cancer was predicted when an interstitial deletion of the long arm of chromosome _num1 , del -lrb- _num1 -rrb- -lrb- q15q22 . 
_num1 -rrb- , was detected in her lymphocytes and deletion of the mcc and apc genes confirmed by molecular analysis . 
adenomatous polyposis coli and carcinoma of the rectum were subsequently diagnosed in the patient . 
she was profoundly mentally retarded , autistic , and had minor dysmorphic features consistent with those of previous patients with similar deletions . 
the deletion arose as a result of recombination within the small insertion loop formed at meiosis by the direct insertion -lrb- dir ins -lrb- _num1 -rrb- -lrb- _an . 
3q14 . 
2q15 -rrb- -rrb- found in the patients mother . 
this family further confirms the cytogenetic mapping of both mcc and apc genes to 5q22 and comparison with other recent cases suggests that both genes and their closely linked markers lie within the 5q22 . 
_num1 subband somatic mutations of the apc gene in colorectal tumors : mutation cluster region in the apc gene . 
we examined somatic mutations of the adenomatous polyposis coli -lrb- apc -rrb- gene in _num2 colorectal tumors -lrb- _num2 adenomas and _num2 carcinomas -rrb- developed in familial adenomatous polyposis -lrb- fap -rrb- and non-fap patients . 
in addition to loss of heterozygosity -lrb- loh -rrb- at the apc locus in _num2 tumors , _num2 other somatic mutations were detected . 
twenty-one of them were point mutations ; _num2 nonsense and two missense mutations , and three occurred in introns at the splicing site . 
twenty-two tumors had frameshift mutations due to deletion or insertion ; nineteen of them were deletions of one to _num2 bp and three were a 1-bp insertion . 
one tumor had a 1-bp deletion in an intron near the splicing site . 
hence , _num2 -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- of _num2 mutations resulted in truncation of the apc protein . 
over _num2 % of the somatic mutations in the apc gene were clustered within a small region of exon _num2 , designated as mcr -lrb- mutation cluster region -rrb- , which accounted for less than _num2 % of the coding region . 
combining these data and the results of loh , more than _num2 % of tumors -lrb- _num2 adenomas and _num2 carcinomas -rrb- had at least one mutation in the apc gene , of which more than _num2 % -lrb- _num1 adenomas and _num2 carcinomas -rrb- had two mutations . 
these results strongly suggest that somatic mutations of the apc gene are associated with development of a great majority of colorectal tumors . . 
identification of an altered splice site in ashkenazi tay-sachs disease . 
tay-sachs disease is an autosomal recessive genetic disorder resulting from mutation of the hexa gene encoding the alpha-subunit of the lysosomal enzyme , beta-n-acetylhexosaminidase a -lrb- ref . 
_num1 -rrb- . 
a relatively high frequency of carriers -lrb- 1 / 27 -rrb- of a lethal , infantile form of the disease is found in the ashkenazi jewish population , but it is not yet evident whether this has resulted from a founder effect and random genetic drift or from a selective advantage of heterozygotes . 
we have identified a single-base mutation in a cloned fragment of the hexa gene from an ashkenazi jewish patient . 
this change , the substitution of a c for g in the first nucleotide of intron _num2 is expected to result in defective splicing of the messenger rna . 
a test for the mutant allele based on amplification of dna by the polymerase chain rection and cleavage of a ddei restriction site generated by the mutation revealed that this case and two other cases of the ashkenazi , infantile form of tay-sachs disease are heterozygous for two different mutations . 
the occurrence of multiple mutant alleles warrants further examination of the selective advantage hypothesis . . 
coats disease of the retina -lrb- unilateral retinal telangiectasis -rrb- caused by somatic mutation in the ndp gene : a role for norrin in retinal angiogenesis . 
coats disease is characterized by abnormal retinal vascular development -lrb- so-called retinal telangiectasis -rrb- which results in massive intraretinal and subretinal lipid accumulation -lrb- exudative retinal detachment -rrb- . 
the classical form of coats disease is almost invariably isolated , unilateral and seen in males . 
a female with a unilateral variant of coats disease gave birth to a son affected by norrie disease . 
both carried a missense mutation within the ndp gene on chromosome xp11 . 
_num1 _num1 . 
subsequently analysis of the retinas of nine enucleated eyes from males with coats disease demonstrated in one a somatic mutation in the ndp gene which was not present within non-retinal tissue . 
we suggest that coats telangiectasis is secondary to somatic mutation in the ndp gene which results in a deficiency of norrin -lrb- the protein product of the ndp gene -rrb- within the developing retina . 
this supports recent observations that the protein is critical for normal retinal vasculogenesis . 
trisomy _num2 with loss of the paternal _num2 as a cause of prader-willi syndrome due to maternal disomy . 
uniparental disomy has recently been recognized to cause human disorders , including prader-willi syndrome -lrb- pws -rrb- . 
we describe a particularly instructive case which raises important issues concerning the mechanisms producing uniparental disomy and whose evaluation provides evidence that trisomy may precede uniparental disomy in a fetus . 
chorionic villus sampling performed for advanced maternal age revealed trisomy _num2 in all direct and cultured cells , though the fetus appeared normal . 
chromosome analysis of amniocytes obtained at _num2 wk was normal in over _num3 cells studied . 
the child was hypotonic at birth , and high-resolution banding failed to reveal the deletion of 15q11-13 , a deletion which is found in _num2 % -70 % of patients with pws . 
over time , typical features of pws developed . 
molecular genetic analysis using probes for chromosome _num2 revealed maternal disomy . 
maternal nondisjunction with fertilization of a disomic egg by a normal sperm , followed by loss of the paternal _num2 , is a likely cause of confined placental mosaicism and uniparental disomy in this case of pws , and advanced maternal age may be a predisposing factor . . 
genetic defect in secretion of complement c5 in mice . 
a genetic deficiency of the fifth -lrb- c5 -rrb- component of complement1-3 , a serum glycoprotein of molecular weight -lrb- mw -rrb- _num3 , _num3 -lrb- ref . 
_num1 -rrb- , has been found in _num2 % of inbred strains of mice3 . 
sera of deficient mice lack detectable c5 activity and protein2 , _num1 . 
in addition deficient mice produce antibody to mouse c5 when injected with sera from c5 sufficient -lrb- normal -rrb- strains . 
levy et al. _num1 showed that somatic cell hybrids between c5 deficient -lrb- _an . 
d2 / old line -rrb- macrophages and either c5 sufficient -lrb- _an . 
d2 / new line -rrb- mouse kidney or chicken erythroblasts secreted haemolytically active mouse c5 in vitro . 
several possible molecular mechanisms to account for the findings were considered , but insufficient direct data were available to choose among them . 
we recently reported that mouse -lrb- cd . 
_num1 strain -rrb- peritoneal cells in culture synthesise and secrete a single chain precursor , pro-c5 -lrb- mw approximately _num3 , _num3 -rrb- , of the two-chain -lrb- alpha chain , _num3 , _num3 and beta chain _num2 , _num3 mw -rrb- c5 protein6 . 
radiolabelled precursor c5 was contained within the cells and was secreted into the tissue culture media . 
using similar methods , we now find that c5 deficiency in each of five different mouse strains -lrb- akr , swr , dba / 2j8 a / hej and _an . 
d2 / old line -rrb- is due to a failure in secretion of c5 protein and not to a failure in biosynthesis of pro-c5 wasp gene mutations in wiskott-aldrich syndrome and x-linked thrombocytopenia . 
the wasp gene has been recently cloned from xp11 . 
_num2 and shown to be mutated in three patients with the wiskott-aldrich syndrome -lrb- was -rrb- . 
we have developed a screening protocol for identifying wasp gene alterations in genomic dna and have identified a spectrum of novel mutations in _num2 additional unrelated families . 
these missense , nonsense and frameshift mutations involve eight of the _num2 exons of the gene . 
two mutations creating premature termination codons were associated with lack of detectable mrna on northern blots . 
four amino acid substitutions , leu27phe , thr48ile , val75met and arg477lys , were found in patients with congenital thrombocytopenia and no clinically evident immune defect indicating that the wasp gene is the site for mutations in x-linked thrombocytopenia as well as in was . 
a t-cell line from a was patient contained two independent dna alterations , a constitutional frameshift mutation , also present in peripheral blood leukocytes from the patient , and compensatory splice site mutation unique to the cell line . 
the distribution of eight missense mutations provides valuable information on amino acids which are essential for normal protein function , and suggests that sites in the first two exons are hot-spots for mutation . 
detection of a nonsense mutation in the dystrophin gene by multiple sscp . 
a combination of multiplex pcr with the single strand conformation polymorphism -lrb- sscp -rrb- technique was employed to screen for point mutations in the human dystrophin gene . 
co-amplification of _num2 exons from genomic dna of duchenne and becker muscular dystrophy -lrb- dmd / bmd -rrb- patients with no deletion or duplication was performed and the samples subjected to multiple sscp analysis . 
we report the case of a nonsense mutation in a duchenne patient identified by this approach . 
the mutation introduces a termination codon within exon _num1 of the dystrophin gene . 
it is predicted to cause a very premature translational termination accounting for the severe phenotype observed . 
the patient inherited this mutation from his mother . 
in addition the analysis revealed _num1 polymorphisms useful for internal control . . 
molecular mechanisms of oncogenic mutations in tumors from patients with bilateral and unilateral retinoblastoma . 
the rb1 gene from _num2 human retinoblastoma tumors has been analyzed exon-by-exon with the single-strand conformation polymorphism technique . 
mutations were found in all tumors , and one-third of the tumors had independent mutations in both alleles neither of which were found in the germ line , confirming their true sporadic nature . 
in the remaining two-thirds of the tumors only one mutation was found , consistent with the loss-of-heterozygosity theory of tumorigenesis . 
point mutations , the majority of which were c -- > t transitions , were the most common abnormality and usually resulted in the conversion of an arginine codon to a stop codon . 
small deletions were the second most common abnormality and most often created a downstream stop codon as the result of a reading frameshift . 
deletions and point mutations also affected splice junctions . 
direct repeats were present at the breakpoint junctions in the majority of deletions , supporting a slipped-mispairing mechanism . 
point mutations generally produced dna sequences which resulted in perfect homology with endogenous sequences which lay within _num2 bp . . 
pax6 gene dosage effect in a family with congenital cataracts , aniridia , anophthalmia and central nervous system defects . 
the human eye malformation aniridia results from haploinsufficiency of pax6 , a paired box dna-binding protein . 
to study this dosage effect , we characterized two pax6 mutations in a family segregating aniridia and a milder syndrome consisting of congenital cataracts and late onset corneal dystrophy . 
the nonsense mutations , at codons _num3 and _num3 , truncate pax6 within the n-terminal paired and c-terminal pst domains , respectively . 
the wild-type pst domain activates transcription autonomously and the mutant form has partial activity . 
a compound heterozygote had severe craniofacial and central nervous system defects and no eyes . 
the pattern of malformations is similar to that in homozygous sey mice and suggests a critical role for pax6 in controlling the migration and differentiation of specific neuronal progenitor cells in the brain . . 
hereditary c7 deficiency . 
diagnosis and hla studies in a french-canadian family . 
the serum of a 44-yr-old woman of french-canadian descent having a b-27 positive ankylosing spondylitis was deficient in the seventh component of complement -lrb- c7 -rrb- as determined by hemolytic and immunochemical methods . 
no inhibitor against c7 was detected , and the levels of all other complement components were normal . 
no deficiency in the opsonic activity of the serum was found , and the results of basic coagulation studies of the plasma were normal . 
on investigation of the patients family , two sisters were found to have the same deficiency but were otherwise in good health . 
the seven other siblings were heterozygous for c7 deficiency , while the paternal aunt had a normal c7 level . 
in the third generation , six children of the three homozygous sisters and five children of heterozygotes were available for testing . 
studies of the hla antigens in all the _num2 subjects and in three spouses indicated no close linkage between the cm deficienty and the hla system . 
in addition , the simultaneous occurrence of two hereditary complement deficiencies -lrb- c2 and c7 -rrb- was discovered in one family of this remarkable kindred . . 
alstrom syndrome : further evidence for linkage to human chromosome 2p13 . 
alstrom syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by retinal degeneration , sensorineural hearing loss , early-onset obesity , and non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus . 
the gene for alstrom syndrome -lrb- alms1 -rrb- has been previously localized to human chromosome 2p13 by homozygosity mapping in two distinct isolated populations - french acadian and north african . 
pair-wise analyses resulted in maximum lod -lrb- logarithm of the odds ratio -rrb- scores of _num1 . 
_num2 and _num1 . 
_num1 , respectively . 
to confirm these findings , a large linkage study was performed in twelve additional families segregating for alstrom syndrome . 
a maximum two-point lod score of _num1 . 
_num2 -lrb- theta = _num1 . 
_num2 -rrb- for marker d2s2110 and a maximum cumulative multipoint lod score of _num1 . 
_num2 for marker d2s2110 were observed , further supporting linkage to chromosome 2p13 . 
no evidence of genetic heterogeneity was observed in these families . 
meiotic recombination events have localized the critical region containing alms1 to a _num1 . 
1-cm interval flanked by markers d2s327 and d2s286 . 
a fine resolution radiation hybrid map of _num2 genes and markers has been constructed . 
haplotype and multipoint linkage analysis in finnish choroideremia families . 
multipoint linkage analysis of choroideremia -lrb- tcd -rrb- and seven x chromosomal restriction fragment length polymorphisms -lrb- rflps -rrb- was carried out in _num2 finnish tcd families . 
the data place tcd distal to pgk and dxs72 , very close to dxys1 and dxys5 -lrb- zmax = _num2 at theta = _num1 -rrb- and proximal to dxys4 and dxys12 . 
this agrees with the data obtained from other linkage studies and from physical mapping . 
all the tcd males and carrier females studied have the same dxys1 allele in coupling with tcd . 
in northeastern finland , 66 / 69 chromosomes carrying tcd had the same haplotype at loci dxs72 , dxys1 , dxys4 , and dxys12 . 
the same haplotype is seen in only 15 / 99 chromosomes not carrying tcd . 
moreover , in 71 / 104 non-tcd chromosomes , the haplotype at six marker loci is different from those seen in any of the _num2 tcd chromosomes . 
this supports the previously described hypothesis that the large northern finnish choroideremia pedigrees , comprising a total of over _num2 living patients representing more than a fifth of all tcd patients described worldwide , carry the same mutation . 
these linkage and haplotype data provide improved opportunities for prenatal diagnosis based on rflp studies . . 
genetic heterogeneity at the glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase locus in southern italy : a study on a population from the matera district . 
glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase -lrb- g6pd -rrb- has been analyzed by gel electrophoresis and by quantitative assay in an unselected sample of _num4 schoolboys from the province of matera -lrb- lucania -rrb- in southern italy . 
we have identified _num2 subjects with a g6pd variant . 
of these , _num2 had severe g6pd deficiency , nine had mild to moderate deficiency , and three had a non-deficient electrophoretic variant . 
the overall rate of g6pd deficiency was _num1 . 
_num1 % . 
the frequency of g6pd deficiency , ranging from _num1 . 
_num1 % on the ionian coast to zero on the eastern side of the lucanian apennines , appears to be inversely related to the distance of each town examined from the ionian coast , suggesting that this geographic distribution may reflect , at least in part , gene flow from greek settlers . 
biochemical characterization has shown that most of the g6pd deficiency in this population is accounted for by g6pd mediterranean . 
in addition , we have found several examples of two other known polymorphic variants -lrb- g6pd cagliari and g6pd a - -rrb- ; three new polymorphic variants , g6pd metaponto -lrb- class iii -rrb- , g6pd montalbano -lrb- class iii -rrb- , and g6pd pisticci -lrb- class iv -rrb- ; and two sporadic variants , g6pd tursi -lrb- class iii -rrb- and g6pd ferrandina -lrb- class ii -rrb- . 
these data provide further evidence for the marked genetic heterogeneity of g6pd deficiency within a relatively narrow geographic area and they prove the presence in the italian peninsula of a gene -lrb- gda - -rrb- regarded as characteristically african . 
defective ctla-4 cycling pathway in chediak-higashi syndrome : a possible mechanism for deregulation of t lymphocyte activation . 
cytotoxic t lymphocyte-associated antigen _num1 -lrb- ctla-4 , also known as cd152 -rrb- has been shown to play a major role in the regulation of t cell activation . 
its membrane expression is highly regulated by endocytosis and trafficking through the secretory lysosome pathway . 
chediak-higashi syndrome -lrb- chs -rrb- is an inherited disorder caused by mutations in the lysosomal trafficking regulator gene , lyst . 
it results in defective membrane targeting of the proteins present in secretory lysosomes , and it is associated with a variety of features , including a lymphoproliferative syndrome with hemophagocytosis . 
the murine equivalent of chs , beige mice , present similar characteristics but do not develop the lymphoproliferative syndrome . 
we show herein that ctla-4 is present in enlarged , abnormal vesicles in chs t cells and is not properly expressed at the cell surface after t cell activation , whereas its surface expression is not impaired . 
it is therefore proposed that the defective surface expression of ctla-4 by chs t cells is involved in the generation of lymphoproliferative disease . 
this observation may provide insight into the role of ctla-4 in humans . . 
beta-catenin accumulation and mutation of the ctnnb1 gene in hepatoblastoma . 
hepatoblastoma is a rare malignant tumor of the liver that occurs in children at an average age of _num1 to _num1 years . 
epidemiologic studies have shown an increased frequency of this tumor type in families affected by adenomatous polyposis coli . 
in addition to the epidemiologic data , molecular genetic studies suggest that inactivation of the apc tumor suppressor may be involved in hepatoblastoma tumorigenesis . 
a major function of apc is the downregulation of beta-catenin , a transcription-activating protein with oncogenic potential . 
in an ongoing immunohistochemical study of beta-catenin expression in sporadic cases of tumor types that are associated with adenomatous polyposis coli , we observed increased beta-catenin levels in the cytoplasm and in the nuclei of three investigated hepatoblastomas . 
sequencing of exon _num1 of the beta-catenin gene -lrb- ctnnb1 -rrb- revealed an activating mutation in one of the tumor samples . 
our data indicate for the first time that beta-catenin accumulation may play a role in the development of hepatoblastoma and that activating mutations of the beta-catenin gene may substitute biallelic apc inactivation in this tumor type . 
genes chromosomes cancer _num2 399-402 , _num4 . . 
sequence of dna flanking the exons of the hexa gene , and identification of mutations in tay-sachs disease . 
the rapid identification of mutations causing tay-sachs disease requires the capacity to readily screen the regions of the hexa gene most likely to be affected by mutation . 
we have sequenced the portions of the introns flanking each of the _num2 hexa exons in order to specify oligonucleotide primers for the pcr-dependent amplification of each exon and splice-junction sequence . 
the amplified products were analyzed , by electrophoresis in nondenaturing polyacrylamide gels , for the presence of either heteroduplexes , derived from the annealing of normal and mutant dna strands , or single-strand conformational polymorphisms -lrb- sscp -rrb- , derived from the renaturation of single-stranded dna . 
five novel mutations from tay-sachs disease patients were detected a 5-bp deletion of _ds in ivs-9 ; a 2-bp deletion of _ds in exon _num1 ; _an to a , giving a stop codon in exon _num1 ; _an to t in exon _num1 , producing the third amino acid substitution detected at this site ; and g to c at position _num1 of ivs-2 , expected to produce abnormal splicing . 
in addition , two mutations , -lrb- _an to a in exon _num2 and a 4-bp insertion in exon _num2 -rrb- that have previously been reported were identified . . 
in vivo modulation of hmgic reduces obesity . 
the hmgi family of proteins consists of three members , hmgic , hmgi and hmgi -lrb- y -rrb- , that function as architectural factors and are essential components of the enhancesome . 
hmgic is predominantly expressed in proliferating , undifferentiated mesenchymal cells and is not detected in adult tissues . 
it is disrupted and misexpressed in a number of mesenchymal tumour cell types , including fat-cell tumours -lrb- lipomas -rrb- . 
in addition hmgic - / - mice have a deficiency in fat tissue . 
to study its role in adipogenesis and obesity , we examined hmgic expression in the adipose tissue of adult , obese mice . 
mice with a partial or complete deficiency of hmgic resisted diet-induced obesity . 
disruption of hmgic caused a reduction in the obesity induced by leptin deficiency -lrb- lepob / lepob -rrb- in a gene-dose-dependent manner . 
our studies implicate a role for hmgic in fat-cell proliferation , indicating that it may be an adipose-specific target for the treatment of obesity . . 
prenatal diagnosis by fish in a family with pelizaeus-merzbacher disease caused by duplication of plp gene . 
a diagnosis of pelizaeus-merzbacher disease -lrb- mim _num6 -rrb- was made in a young boy . 
no mutation in the coding region of the proteolipid protein -lrb- plp -rrb- gene had been found . 
the boys maternal aunt came for prenatal diagnosis when _num2 + weeks pregnant and carrying a male fetus . 
samples were tested for duplication of the plp gene , by interphase fish , in lymphocyte preparations from the proband , his aunt and an amniotic fluid cell preparation from the fetus . 
the proband was found to carry the duplication , thus confirming the diagnosis of pelizaeus merzbacher disease , but neither the aunt nor the fetus carried a duplication . . 
somatic rearrangement of chromosome _num2 in human lymphocytes . 
ataxia-telangiectasia is a rare genetic disorder associated with immune deficiency , chromosome instability , and a predisposition to lymphoid malignancy . 
we have detected chromosomally anomalous clones of lymphocytes in eight patients with this disorder . 
chromosome banding disclosed that the clones are consistently marked by structural rearrangement of the long arm -lrb- q -rrb- of chromosome _num2 . 
a translocation involving 14q was found in clones obtained from seven of the eight patients whereas a ring _num2 chromosome was found in a clone obtained from the other . 
these findings as well as data obtained by others for patients with ataxia-telangiectasia suggest that structural rearrangement of 14q is the initial chromosomal change in lymphocyte clones of patients with this disorder . 
chromosomes of lymphocytes from one of the patients were studied before and after the onset of chronic lymphocytic leukemia . 
before leukemia was diagnosed , the patient had a lymphocyte clone with a 14q translocation . 
this clone appears to have given rise to the leukemic cells . 
we hypothesize that structural rearrangement of 14q is directly related to abnormal growth of lymphocytes and that it may be a step toward the development of lymphoid malignancies . 
increasing evidence , provided by others , for the nonrandom involvement of 14q in african-type burkitts lymphoma and other lymphoid neoplasms further strengthens this hypothesis . . 
two missense mutations causing mild hyperphenylalaninemia associated with dna haplotype _num2 . 
the genetic defects responsible for most phenylketonuria -lrb- pku -rrb- and hyperphenylalaninemia -lrb- hpa -rrb- cases are located in the phenylalanine hydroxylase -lrb- pah -rrb- gene . 
approximately 50-60 mutations have been reported in caucasians and are reflected in a wide range of clinical severities . 
most mutations are linked to specific haplotypes , as defined by eight polymorphic restriction sites in the pah gene . 
we hypothesized that there is at least one mild mutation linked to haplotype _num2 in the swedish pku / hpa population , since _num1 of _num1 patients carrying haplotype _num2 had mild hpa . 
sequence analysis revealed a c-to-g transversion at the second base of codon _num3 , resulting in a substitution of glycine for alanine , in four mutant haplotype _num2 genes , and a g-to-a transition at the second base of codon _num3 , resulting in a substitution of glutamine for arginine , in another three mutant haplotype _num2 genes . 
these mutations segregated with mutant haplotype _num2 alleles in nuclear families but were not present on normal or other mutant alleles . 
both mutations were tested in a eukaryotic expression system in which enzyme activities of different mutant pah enzymes reflect the relative severities of the mutations , although these in vitro activities can not be translated directly into in vivo hepatic activities . 
the a322g mutant pah had about _num2 % and the r408q mutant pah about _num2 % of the wild-type pah enzyme activity . 
these in vitro activities are the highest reported for mutant pah enzymes produced in the same expression system . 
-lrb- abstract truncated _ds _num3 words -rrb- . 
genomic organization of the adrenoleukodystrophy gene . 
adrenoleukodystrophy -lrb- ald -rrb- , the most frequent peroxisomal disorder , is a severe neurodegenerative disease associated with an impairment of very long chain fatty acids beta-oxidation . 
we have recently identified by positional cloning the gene responsible for ald , located in xq28 . 
it encodes a new member of the '' abc '' superfamily of membrane-associated transporters that shows , in particular , significant homology to the 70-kda peroxisomal membrane protein -lrb- pmp70 -rrb- . 
we report here a detailed characterization of the ald gene structure . 
it extends over _num2 kb and consists of _num2 exons . 
to facilitate the detection of mutations in ald patients , we have determined the intronic sequences flanking the exons as well as the sequence of the _num1 untranslated region and of the immediate _num1 promoter region . 
sequences present in distal exons cross-hybridize strongly to additional sequences in the human genome . 
the ald gene has been positioned on a pulsed-field map between dxs15 and the l1cam gene , about _num3 kb upstream from the color pigment genes . 
the frequent occurrence of color vision anomalies observed in patients with adrenomyeloneuropathy -lrb- the adult onset form of ald -rrb- thus does not represent a contiguous gene syndrome but a secondary manifestation of ald . . 
brca1 interacts with components of the histone deacetylase complex . 
germ-line mutations in the brca1 tumor suppressor gene are associated with an increased susceptibility to breast and ovarian cancer . 
brca1 contains a carboxyl-terminal domain -lrb- brct -rrb- that is shared with several other proteins involved in maintaining genome integrity . 
in an effort to understand the function of brca1 , we sought to isolate proteins that interact with the brct domain . 
purified brct polypeptide was used as a probe to screen a human placenta cdna expression library by far western analysis . 
here we report that brca1 interacts in vivo and in vitro with the rb-binding proteins , rbap46 and rbap48 , as well as with rb . 
moreover , the brct domain associates with the histone deacetylases hdac1 and hdac2 . 
these results demonstrate that brca1 interacts with components of the histone deacetylase complex , and therefore may explain the involvement of brca1 in multiple processes such as transcription , dna repair , and recombination . . 
deletion of the kit and pdgfra genes in a patient with piebaldism . 
we have previously shown that human piebaldism results from mutations of the kit gene , which encodes the receptor for the mast / stem cell growth factor and is located in chromosome segment 4q12 . 
using dna of a patient with piebaldism , mental retardation , and multiple congenital anomalies associated with a _num2 , xy , del -lrb- _num1 -rrb- -lrb- q12q21 . 
_num1 -rrb- karyotype , we carried out quantitative southern blot hybridization analyses of the kit gene and the adjacent pdgfra -lrb- platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha subunit -rrb- genes . 
the patient was hemizygous for both the kit and pdgfra genes , indicating that both of these genes are included within the deleted region . 
therefore , deletion of the kit and pdgfra genes may account for the piebald phenotype in this patient . 
glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase variants and their frequency in guangdong , china . 
erythrocyte glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase -lrb- g6pd -rrb- was characterized in blood samples obtained from _num2 randomly selected males with enzyme deficiency from various regions of guangdong province , china . 
nine new variants -lrb- gd kaiping , gd boluo , gd huiyang , gd gaomin , gd qing-baijiang , gd gaozhou , gd huazhou , gd nanhai , and gd guangzhou -rrb- were identified . 
of the _num2 variants found in this province , gd kaiping , gd taiwan-hakka , gd haad yai , gd haad yai-like and gd huiyang occurred most frequently . 
the frequency of each variant was calculated . 
the results demonstrated that the genetic heterogeneity of g6pd deficiency was high in this area . . 
a common molecular basis for rearrangement disorders on chromosome 22q11 . 
the chromosome 22q11 region is susceptible to rearrangements that are associated with congenital anomaly disorders and malignant tumors . 
three congenital anomaly disorders , cat-eye syndrome , der -lrb- -rrb- syndrome and velo-cardio-facial syndrome / digeorge syndrome -lrb- vcfs / dgs -rrb- are associated with tetrasomy , trisomy or monosomy , respectively , for part of chromosome 22q11 . 
vcfs / dgs is the most common syndrome associated with 22q11 rearrangements . 
in order to determine whether there are particular regions on 22q11 that are prone to rearrangements , the deletion end-points in a large number of vcfs / dgs patients were defined by haplotype analysis . 
most vcfs / dgs patients have a similar _num1 mb deletion , some have a nested distal deletion breakpoint resulting in a _num1 . 
_num1 mb deletion and a few rare patients have unique deletions or translocations . 
the high prevalence of the disorder in the population and the fact that most cases occur sporadically suggest that sequences at or near the breakpoints confer susceptibility to chromosome rearrangements . 
to investigate this hypothesis , we developed hamster-human somatic hybrid cell lines from vcfs / dgs patients with all three classes of deletions and we now show that the breakpoints occur within similar low copy repeats , termed lcr22s . 
to support this idea further , we identified a family that carries an interstitial duplication of the same _num1 mb region that is deleted in vcfs / dgs patients . 
we present models to explain how the lcr22s can mediate different homologous recombination events , thereby generating a number of rearrangements that are associated with congenital anomaly disorders . 
we identified five additional copies of the lcr22 on 22q11 that may mediate other rearrangements leading to disease . 
typical and partial cat eye syndrome : identification of the marker chromosome by fish . 
three children are reported with typical cat eye syndrome -lrb- ces -rrb- and three more children with partial ces because of absence of coloboma , in which the supernumerary marker chromosome was studied by fish . 
using a genomic library , and also a centromeric and particularly a cosmid probe of 22q11 , partial tetrasomy was shown in all cases . . 
an intrachromosomal insertion causing 5q22 deletion and familial adenomatous polyposis coli in two generations . 
we report familial adenomatous polyposis coli -lrb- fapc -rrb- with epidermoid cysts , osteomata , and areas of congenital hypertrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium -lrb- chrpes -rrb- in a male patient and his maternal aunt , both of whom suffered a mild to moderate degree of mental handicap . 
both had an interstitial deletion of the long arm of chromosome _num1 -lrb- del -lrb- _num1 -rrb- -lrb- q22q23 . 
_num1 -rrb- -rrb- . 
two other normal family members had the underlying direct insertion of chromosome _num1 -lrb- dir ins -lrb- _num1 -rrb- -lrb- _an . 
3q22q23 3q22q23 . 
_num1 -rrb- -rrb- . 
molecular genetic and fluorescent hybridisation studies have shown that loci d5s37 and d5s98 are outside the deletion whereas loci detected by probes ef5 . 
_num2 and yn5 . 
_num2 are lost . 
as expected , the molecular analyses indicate loss of one allele at the mcc and apc loci . 
the apc gene is located within band 5q22 . 
familial direct insertions should be considered as a cause of recurrent microdeletion syndromes . 
cloning of the huntington disease region in yeast artificial chromosomes . 
the gene responsible for huntington disease has been localized to a _num1 . 
_num1 million base pair -lrb- mb -rrb- region between the loci d4s10 and d4s168 on the short arm of chromosome _num1 . 
as part of a strategy to clone the hd gene on the basis of its chromosomal location , we isolated genomic dna from the hd region as a set of overlapping yeast artificial chromosome -lrb- yac -rrb- clones . 
twenty-eight yac clones were identified by screening human yac libraries with twelve pcr-based sequence-tagged sites -lrb- stss -rrb- from the region . 
we assembled the yac clones into overlapping sets by hybridizing them to a large number of dna probes from the hd region , including the stss . 
in addition , we isolated the ends of the human dna inserts of most of the yac clones to assist in the construction of the contig . 
although almost half of the yacs appear to contain chimeric inserts and several contain internal deletions or other rearrangements , we were able to obtain over _num1 . 
_num1 mb of the hd region in yacs , including one continuous segment of _num1 . 
_num1 mb covering the region that most likely contains the hd gene . 
ten of the twenty eight yac clones comprise a minimal set spanning the _num1 . 
_num1 mb . 
these clones provide reagents for the complete characterization of this region of the genome and for the eventual isolation of the hd gene . 
three novel mutations in five unrelated subjects with hereditary protein s deficiency type i . 
a panel of eight unrelated subjects with inherited type i protein s deficiency was screened for mutations in the pros1 gene . 
in five subjects an abnormality was found but mutations were not detected in the remaining three subjects . 
two subjects shared a g -- > a transition at position + _num1 of the donor splice site consensus sequence of intron _num2 . 
also in two subjects an a -- > t transversion was detected in the stopcodon of the pros1 gene ; this transversion predicts a protein s molecule that is extended by _num2 amino acids . 
the fifth subject was found to possess two sequence abnormalities . 
one allele carried a g -- > a transition near the donor splice junction of intron _num1 , but this abnormality is probably neutral , since it was inherited from the parent with normal protein s antigen levels . 
in the other allele a single t insertion in codon -25 was found . 
analysis of platelet rna showed that only the mrna with the a -- > t mutation in the stopcodon is present in amounts comparable to wildtype rna . 
mrna from the alleles with the other two mutations was either undetectable or present in greatly reduced amounts . 
the latter indicates that a mrna based approach is not feasible for the genetic analysis of protein s deficiency type i . . 
a potential animal model for lesch-nyhan syndrome through introduction of hprt mutations into mice . 
the human lesch-nyhan syndrome is a rare neurological and behavioural disorder , affecting only males , which is caused by an inherited deficiency in the level of activity of the purine salvage enzyme hypoxanthine-guanosine phosphoribosyl transferase -lrb- hprt -rrb- . 
how the resulting alterations in purine metabolism lead to the severe symptoms characteristic of lesch-nyhan patients is still not understood . 
no mutations at the hprt locus leading to loss of activity have been described in laboratory animals . 
to derive an animal model for the lesch-nyhan syndrome , we have used cultured mouse embryonic stem cells , mutagenized by retroviral insertion and selected for loss of hprt activity , to construct chimaeric mice . 
two clonal lines carrying different mutant hprt alleles have given rise to germ cells in chimaeras , allowing the derivation of strains of mutant mice having the same biochemical defect as lesch-nyhan patients . 
male mice carrying the mutant alleles are viable and analysis of their cells shows a total lack of hprt activity . . 
duplicational mutation at the duchenne muscular dystrophy locus : its frequency , distribution , origin , and phenotypegenotype correlation . 
partial gene deletion is the major cause of mutation leading to duchenne muscular dystrophy -lrb- dmd -rrb- and becker muscular dystrophy -lrb- bmd -rrb- . 
partial gene duplication has also been recognized in a few cases . 
we have conducted a survey for duplication in _num2 unrelated nondeletion patients , analyzed by southern blot hybridization with clones representing the entire dmd cdna . 
with careful quantitative analysis of hybridization band intensity , _num2 cases were found to carry a duplication of part of the gene , a frequency of _num2 % for nondeletion cases -lrb- 10 / 72 -rrb- , or _num1 % for all cases -lrb- 10 / 181 -rrb- . 
the extent of these duplications has been characterized according to the published exon-containing hindiii fragment map , and in six of the _num2 duplications a novel restriction fragment that spanned the duplication junction was detected . 
the resulting translational reading frame of mrna has been predicted for nine duplications . 
a shift of the reading frame was predicted in four of the six dmd cases and in one of the two intermediate cases , while the reading frame remained uninterrupted in both bmd cases . 
rflp and quantitative southern blot analyses revealed a grandpaternal origin of duplication in four families and grandmaternal origin in one family . 
in all five families , the duplication was found to originate from a single x chromosome . 
unequal sister-chromatid exchange is proposed to be the mechanism for the formation of these duplications . . 
molecular evidence for new mutation at the hprt locus in lesch-nyhan patients . 
hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase -lrb- hprt ; ec2 . 
_num1 . 
_num1 . 
_num1 -rrb- , which functions in the metabolic salvage of purines , is encoded by an x-linked gene in man . 
partial hprt deficiencies are associated with gouty arthritis , while absence of activity results in lesch-nyhan syndrome -lrb- l-n -rrb- . 
l-n patients fail to reproduce and the heterozygous state appears to confer no selective advantage . 
thus , haldanes principle predicts that new mutations at the hprt locus must occur frequently in order for l-n syndrome to be maintained in the population . 
this constant introduction of new mutations would be expected to result in a heterogeneous collection of genetic lesions , some of which may be novel . 
as we report here , the mutations in the hprt gene of seven l-n patients , selected from an initial survey of _num2 patients , have been characterized and all were found to be distinctly different , as predicted . 
the origin of one unusual mutation has been identified by analysis of dna from four generations of family members . 
further molecular analysis of the origin of new mutations at the hprt locus should aid in resolving the issue of an apparent difference in the frequency of hprt mutations in males and females the mapping of a cdna from the human x-linked duchenne muscular dystrophy gene to the mouse x chromosome . 
the recent discovery of sequences at the site of the duchenne muscular dystrophy -lrb- dmd -rrb- gene in humans has opened up the possibility of a detailed molecular analysis of the genes in humans and in related mammalian species . 
until relatively recently , there was no obvious mouse model of this genetic disease for the development of therapeutic strategies . 
the identification of a mouse x-linked mutant showing muscular dystrophy , mdx , has provided a candidate mouse genetic homologue to the dmd locus ; the relatively mild pathological features of mdx suggest it may have more in common with mutations of the becker muscular dystrophy type at the same human locus , however . 
but the close genetic linkage of mdx to g6pd and hprt on the mouse x chromosome , coupled with its comparatively mild pathology , have suggested that the mdx mutation may instead correspond to emery dreifuss muscular dystrophy which itself is closely linked to dna markers at xq28-qter in the region of g6pd on the human x chromosome . 
using an interspecific mouse domesticus / spretus cross , segregating for a variety of markers on the mouse x chromosome , we have positioned on the mouse x chromosome sequences homologous to a dmd cdna clone . 
these sequences map provocatively close to the mdx mutation and unexpectedly distant from sparse fur , spf , the mouse homologue of otc -lrb- ornithine transcarbamylase -rrb- which is closely linked to dmd on the human x chromosome . . 
identification of the mutation in the alkaptonuria mouse model . 
alkaptonuria -lrb- aku -rrb- , an inborn error of metabolism caused by the loss of homogentisate _num1 , 2-dioxygenase -lrb- hgd -rrb- , has been described in a mouse model created by ethylnitrosourea mutagenesis but the mutation in these mice has not previously been identified . 
we used rt-pcr to amplify the hgd cdna from hgd -lrb- aku -rrb- / hgd -lrb- aku -rrb- mice . 
two products shorter than the wild-type product were amplified . 
restriction mapping and dna sequencing were then used to identify the hgd -lrb- aku -rrb- mouse mutation , found to be a single base change in a splice donor consensus sequence , causing exon skipping and frame-shifted products . 
this base change allowed us to create a non-radioactive genotyping assay for this allele . 
common sequence motifs at the rearrangement sites of a constitutional x / autosome translocation and associated deletion . 
reciprocal chromosome translocations are common de novo rearrangements that occur randomly throughout the human genome . 
to learn about causative mechanisms , we have cloned and sequenced the breakpoints of a cytologically balanced constitutional reciprocal translocation , t -lrb- x ; _num1 -rrb- -lrb- _an . 
_num1 ; _an . 
_num2 -rrb- , present in a girl with duchenne muscular dystrophy -lrb- dmd -rrb- . 
physical mapping of the derivative chromosomes , after their separation in somatic cell hybrids , reveals that the translocation disrupts the dmd gene in xp21 within the 18-kb intron _num2 . 
restriction mapping and sequencing of clones that span both translocation breakpoints as well as the corresponding normal regions indicate the loss of approximately _num1 kb in the formation of the derivative x chromosome , with 4-6 bp deleted from chromosome _num1 . 
rflp and southern analyses indicate that the de novo translocation is a paternal origin and that the fathers x chromosome contains the dna that is deleted in the derivative x. most likely , deletion and translation arose simultaneously from a complex rearrangement event that involves three chromosomal breakpoints . 
short regions of sequence homology were present at the three sites . 
a 5-bp sequence , _ds , found exactly at the translocation breakpoints on both normal chromosomes x and _num1 , has been preserved only on the der -lrb- _num1 -rrb- chromosome . 
it is likely that the x-derived sequence _ds has been lost in the formation of the der -lrb- x -rrb- chromosome , as it matches an inverted _ds sequence present on the opposite strand exactly at the other end of the deleted 5-kb fragment . 
the human factor ix gene as germline mutagen test : samples from mainland china have the putatively endogenous pattern of mutation . 
germline mutations are the major source of genetic variation that allows a species to evolve over time but at the cost of mendelian disease and genetic predisposition to multifactorial diseases . 
previous analyses have revealed that the pattern of germline mutations in the factor ix gene -lrb- f9 -rrb- is similar among a variety of ethnically and geographically diverse populations and compatible with the ancient pattern that has shaped the mammalian genome . 
here , we compare the pattern of germline mutation in a population of hemophilia b patients from mainland china -lrb- n = _num2 -rrb- to that in u. s. caucasians , blacks , and mexican hispanics and stratify by disease severity and ethnicity . 
the similar pattern of germline mutation in all ethnic groups studied to date provides additional data compatible with the inference that endogenous processes predominate in germline mutations . 
phenotype heterogeneity among hemizygotes in a family biochemically screened for adrenoleukodystrophy . 
we report on two clinically , neurologically normal relatives of a boy affected by adrenoleukodystrophy -lrb- ald -rrb- ; they were found repeatedly to have the biochemical defect of an ald hemizygote . 
the assay consisted in the determination of very-long-chain fatty acids in lyophilized and reconstituted plasma . 
while no evidence of neurologic disease -lrb- leukodystrophy or myeloneuropathy -rrb- was present in these hemizygotes , adrenocortical insufficiency provoking compensatory high acth release was found in both . 
these findings should be taken into consideration when counseling families in which cases with clinically expressed ald are represented in several generations . . 
novel mutations of the atp7b gene in japanese patients with wilson disease . 
wilson disease -lrb- wd -rrb- is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by copper accumulation in the liver , brain , kidneys , and corneas , and culminating in copper toxication in these organs . 
in this study , we analyzed mutations of the responsible gene , atp7b , in four japanese patients with wd . 
by direct sequencing , we identified five mutations , of which two were novel , and _num2 polymorphisms , of which _num1 were novel . 
the mutations 2871delc and 2513dela shift the reading frame so that truncated abnormal protein is expected . 
in contrast to these mutations found in patients with hepatic-type of early onset , the mutations a874v , r778l , and 3892delgtc were either missense mutations or in frame 1-amino acid deletion , and occurred in the patients with hepato-neurologic type of late onset . 
the mutations 2871delc and r778l have been previously reported in a relatively large number of japanese patients . 
in particular , r778l is known to be more prevalent in asian countries than in other countries of the world . 
our data are compatible with the hypothesis that the mutations tend to occur in a population-specific manner . 
therefore , the accumulation of the types of mutations in japanese patients with wd will facilitate the fast and effective genetic diagnosis of wd in japanese patients . . 
structural analysis of the _num1 ' region of mouse and human huntington disease genes reveals conservation of putative promoter region and di - and trinucleotide polymorphisms . 
we have previously cloned and characterized the murine homologue of the huntington disease -lrb- hd -rrb- gene and shown that it maps to mouse chromosome _num1 within a region of conserved synteny with human chromosome 4p16 . 
_num1 _num1 . 
here we present a detailed comparison of the sequence of the putative promoter and the organization of the _num1 genomic region of the murine -lrb- hdh -rrb- and human hd genes encompassing the first five exons . 
we show that in this region these two genes share identical exon boundaries , but have different-size introns . 
two dinucleotide -lrb- _ds -rrb- and one trinucleotide intronic polymorphism in hdh and an intronic _ds polymorphism in the hd gene were identified . 
comparison of 940-bp sequence _num1 to the putative translation start site reveals a highly conserved region -lrb- _num2 . 
_num1 % nucleotide identity -rrb- between hdh and the hd gene from nucleotide -56 to -206 -lrb- of hdh -rrb- . 
neither hdh nor the hd gene have typical _ds or _ds elements , but both show one putative ap2 binding site and numerous potential sp1 binding sites . 
the high sequence identity between hdh and the hd gene for approximately _num3 bp _num1 to the putative translation start site indicates that these sequences may play a role in regulating expression of the huntington disease gene complement deficiency and nephritis . 
a report of a family . 
a family is described in which three children had homozygous deficiency of c3 and in which both parents and two other children were heterozygous for the c3 null gene . 
one child with heterozygous c3 deficiency was found to have membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis ; proteinuria and / or microscopical haematuria was present in all three homozygous c3-deficient children . 
all children with homozygous or heterozygous c3 deficiency were , to a varying degree , susceptible to infection . 
the only child of the family with normal complement had no increased risk of infection and no renal disease . 
this family study provides further support for the proposal that c3 deficiency predisposes to nephritis . . 
cytogenetic investigations in families with ataxia-telangiectasia . 
chromosomal studies were performed on peripheral blood lymphocytes and cultured skin fibroblasts from five israeli-moroccan families with ataxia-telangiectasia . 
a total of _num2 individuals , including seven propositi , was investigated . 
among the probands , significantly elevated rates of chromosome damage were observed in both blood and skin . 
skin fibroblasts of affected individuals showed several orders of magnitude more chromosome breakage than lymphocytes . 
increased rates of chromosome damage were also observed in the fibroblasts of some phenotypically normal family members -lrb- obligate heterozygotes and sibs -rrb- when compared to normal controls . 
an apparent abnormal clone of cells , possessing a large acrocentric marker chromosome -lrb- 14q + -rrb- , was observed in varying proportions among cells of all the propositi -lrb- 2-5 % of lymphocytes ; 1-9 % of fibroblasts -rrb- . . 
predominance of the adrenomyeloneuropathy phenotype of x-linked adrenoleukodystrophy in the netherlands : a survey of _num2 kindreds . 
x-linked adrenoleukodystrophy -lrb- x-ald -rrb- is an inherited disorder of peroxisomal beta-oxidation associated with accumulation of saturated very long-chain fatty acids , which results in central and peripheral demyelination and in impaired function of adrenal cortex and testes . 
the phenotypic expression is highly variable , childhood cerebral ald -lrb- ccald -rrb- and adrenomyeloneuropathy -lrb- amn -rrb- being the main variants . 
we explored the _num2 dutch kindreds well known to the dutch x-ald / amn study group and phenotyped _num2 male patients _num2 -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- had amn and _num2 -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- ccald or adolescent cerebral ald -lrb- adolcald -rrb- . 
these percentages differ significantly from previous reports , in which _num2 to _num2 % of the patients developed amn and _num2 to _num2 % ccald or adolcald . 
our findings indicate that -- at least in the netherlands -- amn may be the most frequent phenotype of x-ald . . 
three novel aniridia mutations in the human pax6 gene . 
aniridia -lrb- iris hypoplasia -rrb- is an autosomal dominant congenital disorder of the eye . 
mutations in the human aniridia -lrb- pax6 -rrb- gene have now been identified in many patients from various ethnic groups . 
in the study reported here we describe pax6 mutations in one sporadic and five familial cases with aniridia . 
of the four different mutations identified , one was identical to a previously reported mutation -lrb- c -- > t transition at codon _num3 -rrb- , and three were novel two in the glycine-rich region and one in the proline / serine / threonine-rich -lrb- pst -rrb- region . 
one pax6 mutation found in the pst region was associated with cataracts in an aniridia family . 
another splice mutation in the pst domain occurred in an aniridia patient with anosmia -lrb- inability to smell -rrb- . 
the six new aniridia cases reported here have mutations predicted to generate incomplete pax6 proteins . 
these results support the theory that human aniridia is caused by haploinsufficiency of pax6 . . 
hepatoblastoma , pigmented ocular fundus lesions and jaw lesions in gardner syndrome . 
hepatoblastoma is a rare neoplasm of infants and children only recently documented in association with hereditary adenomatous polyposis of the colon -lsb- kingston et al. , _num4 -rsb- . 
we report four children with hepatoblastoma from four unrelated families with gardner syndrome -lrb- gs -rrb- . 
one child , now _num2 years old , survived after a resection of a hepatoblastoma in infancy and recently was found to have gs . 
he has an associated odontoma and pigmented ocular fundus lesions , both of which have been shown to be clinical markers of gs . 
many individuals in these four gs families , both affected and at risk , have osteomatous jaw lesions and pigmented ocular fundus lesions . 
a search for colonic polyps should be made in families of infants and children with hepatoblastoma . 
if the child survives , he or she should be monitored for the later appearance of colonic polyps . 
the finding of jaw lesions and / or pigmented ocular fundus lesions in relatives at risk are indications of the possible presence of the gs gene . 
mutation spectrum in the chm gene of danish and swedish choroideremia patients . 
the recent isolation of the complete open reading frame of the choroideremia -lrb- chm -rrb- gene and the characterization of the exon-intron boundaries has paved the way to mutation detection in patients with classical choroideremia . 
we have performed mutation screening in patients from _num2 danish and swedish families by using southern blot hybridization and the polymerase chain reaction single-strand conformation polymorphism -lrb- pcr-sscp -rrb- technique . 
causative mutations in the chm gene were detected in at least _num2 families , indicating that a substantial part of the mutations can be identified by this approach . 
in four of these families deletions of different sizes were found . 
thus , in one patient , the deletion resulted in the absence of only one exon , while in another the deletion comprised the entire chm gene . 
mapping of the deletion endpoints in these four patients and in another _num2 male patients with sizeable deletions enabled us to construct a very detailed map of intervals _num1 and _num1 of xq21 . 
in the remaining _num2 danish and swedish families at least _num1 causative mutations were found by pcr-sscp analysis and direct sequencing . 
interestingly , all chm gene mutations detected thus far in choroideremia patients give rise to the introduction of a premature stop codon . . 
diverse point mutations result in glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase -lrb- g6pd -rrb- polymorphism in taiwan . 
glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase -lrb- g6pd ; ec -rrb- deficiency is the most common human enzymopathy , affecting more than _num3 million people worldwide . 
although greater than _num3 variants have been described based on clinical and biochemical criteria , little is known about the molecular basis of these g6pd deficiencies . 
recently , the gene that encodes human g6pd has been cloned and sequenced , which enables us to examine directly the heterogeneity of g6pd at the dna level . 
during the past _num2 years , we examined the g6pd activity in _num2 , _num3 newborn chinese infants -lrb- _num2 , _num3 males and _num1 , _num3 females -rrb- and identified _num3 -lrb- _num1 . 
_num1 % -rrb- males and _num3 -lrb- _num1 . 
_num1 % -rrb- females having low g6pd activity . 
the g6pd gene from _num2 randomly selected affected individuals and their relatives was polymerase chain reaction -lrb- pcr -rrb- amplified , subcloned , and sequenced . 
our results indicate that at least four types of mutation are responsible for the g6pd polymorphism in taiwan . 
the first type of mutation -lrb- _num3 g -- a -rrb- was found in an affected chinese with a g to a change at nucleotide _num3 , which results in a -lrb- _num3 -rrb- gly to ser substitution . 
the second type of mutation -lrb- _num3 a -- g -rrb- is a novel mutation that has not been reported in any other ethnic group and was identified in two affected chinese . 
this mutation causes an a to g change at nucleotide position _num3 , producing an -lrb- _num3 -rrb- asn to asp substitution . 
interestingly , the _num3 g -- a and _num3 a -- g mutations create alu i and ava ii recognition sites , respectively , which enabled us to rapidly detect these two mutations by pcr / restriction enzyme -lrb- re -rrb- digestion method . 
the third mutation -lrb- _num4 g -- t -rrb- was found in four affected chinese . 
this mutation causes a g to t change at nucleotide position _num4 that results in an -lrb- _num3 -rrb- arg to leu substitution . 
the _num4 g -- t mutation seems to be the dominant allele that causes g6pd deficiency in taiwan . 
finally , two affected chinese were identified as having the fourth mutation -lrb- _num4 g -- a -rrb- . 
this mutation causes a g to a change at nucleotide _num4 that produces an -lrb- _num3 -rrb- arg to his substitution . 
our studies provide the direct proof of the genetic heterogeneity of g6pd deficiency in the chinese populations of taiwan and the pcr / re digestion method is suitable for simultaneous detection of the _num3 g -- a and _num3 a -- g mutations . 
fas preassociation required for apoptosis signaling and dominant inhibition by pathogenic mutations . 
heterozygous mutations encoding abnormal forms of the death receptor fas dominantly interfere with fas-induced lymphocyte apoptosis in human autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome . 
this effect , rather than depending on ligand-induced receptor oligomerization , was found to stem from ligand - independent interaction of wild-type and mutant fas receptors through a specific region in the extracellular domain . 
preassociated fas complexes were found in living cells by means of fluorescence resonance energy transfer between variants of green fluorescent protein . 
these results show that formation of preassociated receptor complexes is necessary for fas signaling and dominant interference in human disease . . 
familial mediterranean fever in the colchicine era : the fate of one family . 
in order to demonstrate the effect of prophylactic colchicine treatment on the natural history of familial mediterranean fever -lrb- fmf -rrb- , a family is presented with _num1 out of _num1 siblings affected by fmf . 
each patient represents a different stage of the amyloidotic kidney disease of fmf and the effect of continuous colchicine treatment on its course . 
considered together , the members of this family present an almost complete clinical , genetic , and behavioral picture of the disease . . 
two new arylsulfatase a -lrb- arsa -rrb- mutations in a juvenile metachromatic leukodystrophy -lrb- mld -rrb- patient . 
fragments of the arylsulfatase a -lrb- arsa -rrb- gene from a patient with juvenile-onset metachromatic leukodystrophy -lrb- mld -rrb- were amplified by pcr and ligated into mp13 cloning vectors . 
clones hybridizing with cdna for human arsa were selected , examined for appropriate size inserts , and used to prepare single-stranded phage dna . 
examination of the entire coding and most of the intronic sequence revealed two putative disease-related mutations . 
one , a point mutation in exon _num1 , resulted in the substitution of isoleucine by serine . 
introduction of this alteration into the normal arsa cdna sequence resulted in a substantial decrease in arsa activity on transient expression in cultured baby hamster kidney cells . 
about _num1 % of the control expression was observed , suggesting a small residual activity in the mutated arsa . 
the second mutation , a g-to-a transition , occurred in the other allele and resulted in an altered splice-recognition sequence between exon _num1 and the following intron . 
the mutation also resulted in the loss of a restriction site . 
apparently normal levels of mrna were generated from this allele , but no arsa activity or immuno-cross-reactive material could be detected . 
a collection of dna samples from known or suspected mld patients , members of their families , and normal controls was screened for these mutations . 
four additional individuals carrying each of the mutations were found among the nearly _num3 mld patients in the sample . 
gene segregation in the original patients family was consistent with available clinical and biochemical data . 
no individuals homozygous for either of these two mutations were identified . 
however , combinations with other mld mutations suggest that the point mutation in exon _num1 does result in some residual enzyme activity and is associated with late-onset forms of the disease . 
the splice-site mutation following exon _num1 produces late-infantile mld when combined with other enzyme-null mutations , implying that it is completely silent enzymatically . . 
null mutation of the murine atp7b -lrb- wilson disease -rrb- gene results in intracellular copper accumulation and late-onset hepatic nodular transformation . 
the atp7b protein is a copper-transporting atpase expressed predominantly in the liver and to a lesser extent in most other tissues . 
mutations in the atp7b gene lead to wilson disease , a copper toxicity disorder characterized by dramatic build-up of intracellular hepatic copper with subsequent hepatic and neuro-logical abnormalities . 
using homologous recombination to disrupt the normal translation of atp7b , we have generated a strain of mice that are homozygous mutants -lrb- null -rrb- for the wilson disease gene . 
the atp7b null mice display a gradual accumulation of hepatic copper that increases to a level 60-fold greater than normal by _num1 months of age . 
an increase in copper concentration was also observed in the kidney , brain , placenta and lactating mammary glands of homo-zygous mutants , although milk from the mutant glands was copper deficient . 
morphological abnormalities resembling cirrhosis developed in the majority of the livers from homozygous mutants older than _num1 months of age . 
progeny of the homozygous mutant females demonstrated neurological abnormalities and growth retardation characteristic of copper deficiency . 
copper concentration in the livers of the newborn homozygous null mutants was decreased dramatically . 
in summary , inactivation of the murine atp7b gene produces a form of cirrhotic liver disease that resembles wilson disease in humans and the toxic milk phenotype in the mouse . . 
adrenoleukodystrophy and adrenomyeloneuropathy associated with partial adrenal insufficiency in three generations of a kindred . 
four cases of adrenoleukodystrophy -lrb- ald -rrb- and one case of adrenomyeloneuropathy -lrb- amn -rrb- have developed in a kindred over three generations demonstrating that amn is a clinical variant of ald . 
pituitary-adrenal function studies were performed in _num2 family members , including two affected males and four females identified as carriers of ald / amn . 
no pituitary-adrenal abnormality was found in the carriers . 
however , basal morning plasma adrenocorticotropic hormone -lrb- acth -rrb- levels were markedly elevated in the two males with ald and amn , despite the fact that they had no clinical signs of adrenal insufficiency and that morning plasma cortisol levels and their response to maximal exogenous acth stimulation appeared to be normal . 
in addition , the integrated 24-hour response to the administration were also subnormal in these two cases . 
thus , people with ald and amn may have subclinical partial adrenocrotical insufficiency . 
no other endocrinologic dysfunction was identified . . 
identification of mutations in the ald gene of _num2 families with adrenoleukodystrophy / adrenomyeloneuropathy . 
adrenoleukodystrophy -lrb- ald -rrb- , an x-linked inherited metabolic disorder , is the most frequent inborn peroxisomal disease . 
it leads to demyelination in the central and peripheral nervous system . 
defective beta-oxidation of saturated very long chain fatty acids -lrb- vlcfas ; _an 0-c26 _num1 -rrb- in peroxisomes has been shown to lead to an accumulation of vlcfas in leukoid areas of the central nervous system , peripheral nerves , adrenal gland , and blood . 
the ald gene has been recently identified and encodes a 745-amino-acid protein . 
we screened patients with adrenoleukodystrophy / adrenomyeloneuropathy -lrb- ald / amn -rrb- from _num2 kindreds for mutations in the ald gene . 
eleven missense and two nonsense mutations , five deletions , and one insertion were detected by direct sequencing of eight reverse transcribed fragments of the ald gene mrna . 
four mutations could be shown to be de novo . 
all mutations could be confirmed in carriers by sequencing genomic dna . 
no correlation between the type of mutation and the severity of the phenotype could be observed . 
the mutations were not detected in the ald gene of _num2 healthy persons . . 
gonosomal mosaicism in myotonic dystrophy patients : involvement of mitotic events in -lrb- _ds -rrb- n repeat variation and selection against extreme expansion in sperm . 
myotonic dystrophy -lrb- dm -rrb- is caused by abnormal expansion of a polymorphic -lrb- _ds -rrb- n repeat , located in the dm protein kinase gene . 
we determined the -lrb- _ds -rrb- n repeat lengths in a broad range of tissue dnas from patients with mild , classical , or congenital manifestation of dm . 
differences in the repeat length were seen in somatic tissues from single dm individuals and twins . 
repeats appeared to expand to a similar extent in tissues originating from the same embryonal origin . 
in most male patients carrying intermediate - or small-sized expansions in blood , the repeat lengths covered a markedly wider range in sperm . 
in contrast , male patients with large allele expansions in blood -lrb- > _num3 ctgs -rrb- had similar or smaller repeats in sperm , when detectable . 
sperm alleles with > _num1 , _num3 ctgs were not seen . 
we conclude that dm patients can be considered gonosomal mosaics , i. e e. , combined somatic and germ-line tissue mosaics . 
most remarkably , we observed multiple cases where the length distributions of intermediate - or small-sized alleles in fathers sperm were significantly different from that in their offsprings blood . 
our combined findings indicate that intergenerational length changes in the unstable _ds repeat are most likely to occur during early embryonic mitotic divisions in both somatic and germ-line tissue formation . 
both the initial _ds length , the overall number of cell divisions involved in tissue formation , and perhaps a specific selection process in spermatogenesis may influence the dynamics of this process . 
a model explaining mitotic instability and sex-dependent segregation phenomena in dm manifestation is discussed combined analysis of hereditary prostate cancer linkage to 1q24-25 : results from _num3 hereditary prostate cancer families from the international consortium for prostate cancer genetics . 
a previous linkage study provided evidence for a prostate cancer susceptibility locus at 1q24-25 . 
subsequent reports in additional collections of families have yielded conflicting results . 
in addition , evidence for locus heterogeneity has been provided by the identification of other putative hereditary prostate cancer loci on xq27-28 , 1q42-43 , and 1p36 . 
the present study describes a combined analysis for six markers in the 1q24-25 region in _num3 families affected by hereditary prostate cancer and ascertained by the members of the international consortium for prostate cancer genetics -lrb- icpcg -rrb- from north america , australia , finland , norway , sweden , and the united kingdom . 
overall , there was some evidence for linkage , with a peak parametric multipoint lod score assuming heterogeneity -lrb- hlod -rrb- of _num1 . 
_num2 -lrb- p = . 
_num2 -rrb- at d1s212 . 
the estimated proportion of families -lrb- alpha -rrb- linked to the locus was . 
_num2 -lrb- 1-lod support interval . 
_num2 - . 
_num2 -rrb- . 
this evidence was not observed by a nonparametric approach , presumably because of the extensive heterogeneity . 
further parametric analysis revealed a significant effect of the presence of male-to-male disease transmission within the families . 
in the subset of _num3 such families , the peak hlod was _num1 . 
in the subset of _num3 such families , the peak hlod was _num1 . 
_num2 -lrb- p = . 
_num4 -rrb- and alpha = . 
_num2 -lrb- 1-lod support interval . 
_num2 - . 
_num2 -rrb- , compared with hlods of _num1 in the remaining _num3 families . 
within the families with male-to-male disease transmission , alpha increased with the early mean age at diagnosis -lrb- < _num2 years , alpha = . 
_num2 , with 1-lod support interval . 
_num2 - . 
_num2 -rrb- and the number of affected family members -lrb- five or more family members , alpha = . 
_num2 , with 1-lod support interval . 
_num2 - . 
_num2 -rrb- . 
the highest value of alpha was observed for the _num2 families that met all three criteria -lrb- peak hlod = _num1 . 
_num2 , p = . 
_num3 , alpha = . 
_num2 , with 1-lod support interval . 
_num2 - . 
_num2 -rrb- . 
these results support the finding of a prostate cancer susceptibility gene linked to 1q24-25 , albeit in a defined subset of prostate cancer families . 
although hpc1 accounts for only a small proportion of all families affected by hereditary prostate cancer , it appears to play a more prominent role in the subset of families with several members affected at an early age and with male-to-male disease transmission . 
a novel disease with deficiency of mitochondrial very-long-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase . 
palmitoyl-coa dehydrogenase activity in skin fibroblasts from seven patients with unidentified defects of fatty acid oxidation was measured in the presence and absence of antibodies against medium-chain , long-chain , and very-long-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenases -lrb- vlcad -rrb- . 
two of the patients , 4-5 month old boys , were found to have a novel disease , vlcad deficiency , as judged from the results of very low palmitoyl-coa dehydrogenase activity and the lack of immunoreactivity toward antibody raised to purified vlcad . . 
inherited wt1 mutation in denys-drash syndrome . 
patients with the denys-drash syndrome -lrb- wilms tumor , genital anomalies , and nephropathy -rrb- have been demonstrated to carry de novo constitutional mutations in wt1 , the wilms tumor gene at chromosome 11p13 . 
we report three new cases , two carrying a previously described wt1 exon _num1 mutation and one with a novel wt1 exon _num1 mutation . 
however , unlike patients in previous reports , one of our three patients inherited the affected allele from his phenotypically unaffected father . 
this observation indicates that the wt1 exon _num1 mutation affecting 394arg demonstrated in over one-half of the patients with the denys-drash syndrome may exhibit incomplete penetrance . 
consequently , familial studies in patients affected by this syndrome are recommended . . 
glucose / galactose malabsorption caused by a defect in the na + / glucose cotransporter . 
glucose / galactose malabsorption -lrb- ggm -rrb- is an autosomal recessive disease manifesting within the first weeks of life and characterized by a selective failure to absorb dietary glucose and galactose from the intestine . 
the consequent severe diarrhoea and dehydration are usually fatal unless these sugars are eliminated from the diet . 
intestinal biopsies of ggm patients have revealed a specific defect in na -lrb- + -rrb- - dependent absorption of glucose in the brush border . 
normal glucose absorption is mediated by the na + / glucose cotransporter in the brush border membrane of the intestinal epithelium . 
cellular influx is driven by the transmembrane na + electrochemical potential gradient ; thereafter the sugar moves to the blood across the basolateral membrane via the facilitated glucose carrier . 
we have previously cloned and sequenced a na + / glucose cotransporter from normal human ileum and shown that this gene , sglt1 , resides on the distal q arm of chromosome _num2 . 
we have now amplified sglt1 complementary dna and genomic dna from members of a family affected with ggm by the polymerase chain reaction . 
sequence analysis of the amplified products has revealed a single missense mutation in sglt1 which cosegregates with the ggm phenotype and results in a complete loss of na -lrb- + -rrb- - dependent glucose transport in xenopus oocytes injected with this complementary rna . . 
atm and bax cooperate in ionizing radiation-induced apoptosis in the central nervous system . 
ataxia-telangiectasia is a hereditary multisystemic disease resulting from mutations of ataxia telangiectasia , mutated -lrb- atm -rrb- and is characterized by neurodegeneration , cancer , immune defects , and hypersensitivity to ionizing radiation . 
the molecular details of atm function in the nervous system are unclear , although the neurological lesion in ataxia-telangiectasia becomes apparent early in life , suggesting a developmental origin . 
the central nervous system -lrb- cns -rrb- of atm-null mice shows a pronounced defect in apoptosis induced by genotoxic stress , suggesting atm functions to eliminate neurons with excessive genomic damage . 
here , we report that the death effector bax is required for a large proportion of atm-dependent apoptosis in the developing cns after ionizing radiation -lrb- ir -rrb- . 
although many of the same regions of the cns in both bax - / - and atm - / - mice were radioresistant , mice nullizygous for both bax and atm showed additional reduction in ir-induced apoptosis in the cns . 
therefore , although the major ir-induced apoptotic pathway in the cns requires atm and bax , a p53-dependent collateral pathway exists that has both atm - and bax-independent branches . 
further , atm - and bax-dependent apoptosis in the cns also required caspase-3 activation . 
these data implicate bax and caspase-3 as death effectors in neurodegenerative pathways . . 
novel tay-sachs disease mutations from china . 
we describe three hexa mutations associated with infantile tay-sachs disease -lrb- tsd -rrb- in three unrelated nonconsanguineous chinese families . 
novel mutations were found in two of these families . 
the third is a previously reported mutation -lrb- g -- > a transition at nt _num4 -rrb- -lrb- nakano et al. , _num4 -rrb- . 
direct sequencing of pcr products identified a novel insertion of an a after nt _num3 in family _num1 . 
this change generates an early termination codon _num1 bp downstream from the insertion site . 
allele-specific oligonucleotide hybridization confirmed homozygosity in the proband . 
single strand conformational polymorphism analysis and direct sequencing of amplified exon _num2 revealed a t -- > c transition at nt _num4 with the corresponding amino acid substitution w485r in the second family . 
this mutation creates an fnu4hi restriction site . 
the proband is homozygous for this allele . 
when the site-specific mutagenized alpha cdna carrying the t -- > c transition at nt _num4 was expressed in cos _num1 cells hexosaminidase s activity was not detectable above background . 
a g -- > a transition at nt _num4 -lrb- exon _num2 -rrb- corresponding to the e482k substitution was found in the third family . 
this mutation occurs at a cpg dinucleotide . 
it has been reported in an italian tsd proband and causes defective intracellular transport of the alpha-subunit from the rough endoplasmic reticulum to the golgi apparatus . 
glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency and incidence of hematologic malignancy . 
we have evaluated the hypothesis of a negative association between glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase -lrb- g6pd -rrb- deficiency and cancer in a cohort of _num3 sardinian males with hematological malignancies . 
the frequency of g6pd deficiency in the patients was not different from the incidence in a group of _num2 , _num3 controls . 
the same conclusion resulted from the comparison of the frequency of expression of the gdb gene in _num2 heterozygous women having a clonal hematologic disease and a control group of _num2 healthy heterozygotes . 
therefore at present there is no evidence that g6pd deficiency has a protective effect against development of hematologic neoplasms . . 
a physical map and candidate genes in the brca1 region on chromosome 17q12-21 . 
we have constructed a physical map of a _num1 cm region on chromosome 17q12-21 that contains the hereditary breast and ovarian cancer gene brca1 . 
the map comprises a contig of _num3 overlapping yeast artificial chromosomes and p1 clones , onto which we have placed _num3 pcr markers . 
we have localized more than _num2 genes on this map , ten of which had not been mapped to the region previously , and have isolated _num2 cdna clones representing partial sequences of as yet unidentified genes . 
two genes that lie within a narrow region defined by meiotic breakpoints in brca1 patients have been sequenced in breast cancer patients without revealing any deleterious mutations . 
these new reagents should facilitate the identification of brca1 . . 
sulfate transport is not impaired in pendred syndrome thyrocytes . 
pendred syndrome is the most common form of syndromic deafness , characterized by dyshormonogenic goiter associated with sensory-neural deafness . 
the gene responsible for the disease -lrb- pds -rrb- has been cloned , but its function is as yet unknown and the connection between thyroid goiter and sensory-neural deafness remains an enigma . 
pds codes for a novel protein , pendrin , which is closely related to a number of sufate transporters . 
mechanisms by which abnormal sulfate transport could deleteriously affect iodide organification have been proposed . 
we tested sulfate transport in thyrocytes obtained from pendred syndrome patients and found that it was not defective . 
this suggests that pendrin in fact may not be a sulfate transporter , and emphasizes the importance of functional studies on this novel protein . . 
spinal xanthomatosis : a variant of cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis . 
we describe seven dutch patients from six families with a slowly progressive , mainly spinal cord syndrome that remained for many years the sole expression of cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis -lrb- ctx -rrb- . 
mri demonstrated white matter abnormalities in the lateral and dorsal columns of the spinal cord . 
post-mortem examination of one of the patients showed extensive myelin loss in these columns . 
an array of genotypes was found in these patients . 
we conclude that spinal xanthomatosis is a clinical and radiological separate entity of ctx that should be included in the differential diagnosis of chronic myelopathy . . 
the exon _num2 duplication in the brca1 gene is a founder mutation present in geographically diverse populations . 
the brca1 exon _num2 duplication screening group . 
recently , a 6-kb duplication of exon _num2 , which creates a frameshift in the coding sequence of the brca1 gene , has been described in three unrelated u. s s. families of european ancestry and in one portuguese family . 
here , our goal was to estimate the frequency and geographic diversity of carriers of this duplication . 
to do this , a collaborative screening study was set up that involved _num2 institutions from _num2 countries and included _num1 , _num3 unrelated individuals with a family history of the disease and _num3 early-onset breast and / or ovarian cancer cases . 
a total of _num2 additional families carrying this mutation were identified in australia -lrb- _num1 -rrb- , belgium -lrb- _num1 -rrb- , canada -lrb- _num1 -rrb- , great britain -lrb- _num1 -rrb- , and the united states -lrb- _num1 -rrb- . 
haplotyping showed that they are likely to derive from a common ancestor , possibly of northern british origin . 
our results demonstrate that it is strongly advisable , for laboratories carrying out screening either in english-speaking countries or in countries with historical links with britain , to include within their brca1 screening protocols the polymerase chain reaction-based assay described in this report . 
germline mutations of the brca1 gene in breast and ovarian cancer families provide evidence for a genotype-phenotype correlation . 
mutations in the brca1 gene , discovered in _num4 , are associated with an 80-90 % lifetime risk of breast cancer . 
we have analysed _num2 families with a history of breast and / or ovarian cancer for germline mutations in brca1 . 
twenty-two different mutations were detected in _num2 families -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- , of which _num2 are previously unreported . 
we observed a significant correlation between the location of the mutation in the gene and the ratio of breast to ovarian cancer incidence within each family . 
our data suggest a transition in risk such that mutations in the _num1 third of the gene are associated with a lower proportion of ovarian cancer . 
haplotype analysis supports previous data which suggest some brca1 mutation carriers have common ancestors ; however , we have found at least two examples where recurrent mutations appear to have arisen independently . . 
inactivation of the friedreich ataxia mouse gene leads to early embryonic lethality without iron accumulation . 
friedreich ataxia -lrb- frda -rrb- , the most common autosomal recessive ataxia , is caused in almost all cases by homozygous intronic expansions resulting in the loss of frataxin , a mitochondrial protein conserved through evolution , and involved in mitochondrial iron homeostasis . 
yeast knockout models , and histological and biochemical data from patient heart biopsies or autopsies indicate that the frataxin defect causes a specific iron-sulfur protein deficiency and mitochondrial iron accumulation leading to the pathological changes . 
affected human tissues are rarely available to further examine this hypothesis . 
to study the mechanism of the disease , we generated a mouse model by deletion of exon _num1 leading to inactivation of the frda gene product . 
we show that homozygous deletions cause embryonic lethality a few days after implantation , demonstrating an important role for frataxin during early development . 
these results suggest that the milder phenotype in humans is due to residual frataxin expression associated with the expansion mutations . 
surprisingly , in the frataxin knockout mouse , no iron accumulation was observed during embryonic resorption , suggesting that cell death could be due to a mechanism independent of iron accumulation . . 
a glycine250 -- > aspartate substitution in the alpha-subunit of hexosaminidase a causes juvenile-onset tay-sachs disease in a lebanese-canadian family . 
the mutation causing juvenile tay-sachs disease -lrb- tsd -rrb- in two sibs of lebanese-maronite origin is described . 
an mrna-containing extract of cultured fibroblasts obtained from one of the probands was used as a template to amplify the coding sequence of the hexosaminidase a -lrb- hex a -rrb- alpha-subunit . 
sequencing of amplified cdna fragments revealed a single alteration , guanine to adenine at nt _num3 creating a g250d mutation . 
the mutation introduces a new recognition site for the restriction enzyme eco rv , permitting identification of heterozygotes for this allele following pcr amplification and eco rv digestion of exon _num1 sequences from genomic dna templates . 
in order to test the effect of this substitution , an in vitro mutagenized cdna construct was introduced into a mammalian expression vector and transfected into monkey cos-1 cells separately or along with a beta-cdna expression vector . 
when the mutant alpha-cdna was the only gene introduced into cos cells no enzymatic activity above endogenous cos cell activity was detected . 
cotransfection of normal alpha-cdna and beta-cdna followed by immunoprecipitation of human hex a resulted in 20-fold increase in the ratio between positive and negative -lrb- mock transfection -rrb- control values . 
this allowed the detection of some residual activity -lrb- _num2 % of the positive control -rrb- when the mutant alpha-cdna replaced its wild-type counterpart . 
the predicted protein environment in which the mutation occurs is compared to that of the adult-onset tay-sachs disease mutation caused by a gly269 -- > ser substitution in exon _num1 . 
-lrb- abstract truncated _ds _num3 words -rrb- . 
restriction of ocular fundus lesions to a specific subgroup of apc mutations in adenomatous polyposis coli patients . 
in humans , alteration of the tumor suppressor gene , apc , causes adenomatous polyposis coli , a condition causing predisposition to colorectal cancer . 
the syndrome inconsistently associates characteristic patches of congenital hypertrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium -lrb- chrpe -rrb- . 
ocular examination revealed that patients expressing chrpe tend to cluster within specific families . 
the exact apc mutation was identified in _num2 unrelated patients . 
in all cases these mutations were predicted to lead to the synthesis of a truncated protein . 
the extent of chrpe was found to be dependent on the position of the mutation along the coding sequence . 
chrpe lesions are almost always absent if the mutation occurs before exon _num1 , but are systematically present if it occurs after this exon . 
thus , the range of phenotypic expression observed among affected patients may result in part from different allelic manifestations of apc mutations . . 
linkage analysis of _num2 canadian breast and breast-ovarian cancer families . 
we have examined _num2 canadian families with hereditary breast or ovarian cancer for linkage to markers flanking the brca1 gene on chromosome 17q12-q21 . 
of the _num2 families that contain cases of ovarian cancer , _num2 % were estimated to be linked to brca1 . 
in contrast , there was no overall evidence of linkage in the group of _num2 families with breast cancer without ovarian cancer . 
a genetic recombinant in a breast-ovarian cancer family indicates a placement of brca1 telomeric to d17s776 , and helps to define the region of assignment of the cancer susceptibility gene . 
other cancers of interest that appeared in the brca1-linked families included primary peritoneal cancer , cancer of the fallopian tube , and malignant melanoma . . 
malignant neoplasms in the families of patients with ataxia-telangiectasia . 
ataxia-telangiectasia -lrb- a-t -rrb- is an autosomal recessive syndrome associated with a greatly increased incidence of malignant neoplasms in homozygous affected individuals . 
heterozygotes for the gene for a-t are thought to comprise about _num1 % of the general population and , therefore , it is important to know whether this gene also predisposes the heterozygous carrier to cancers . 
heterozygous carriers of this gene are common among the close relatives of patients with a-t , although individual carriers can not be identified by any clinical criterion or laboratory test . 
for this reason , we compared the incidence of death from malignant neoplasms in _num1 families of patients with a-t to that expected in a random sample of the general population . 
there were _num2 deaths from malignant neoplasms in relatives dying before age _num2 , compared to _num2 . 
_num1 expected -lrb- p less than _num1 . 
_num2 -rrb- . 
for a-t heterozygotes younger than age _num2 , the risk of dying from a malignant neoplasm was estimated to be greater than _num1 times the risk for the general population . 
a-t heterozygotes may comprise more than _num1 % of all persons dying from a cancer before age _num2 . 
the incidence of ovarian , gastric , and biliary system carcinomas and of leukemia and lymphoma was increased in these a-t families . 
other neoplasms that may be associated with this gene in heterozygotes include pancreatic , basal cell , colonic , breast , and cervical carcinomas . 
molecular genetics of pku in eastern europe : a nonsense mutation associated with haplotype _num1 of the phenylalanine hydroxylase gene . 
phenylketonuria -lrb- pku -rrb- is a genetic disorder secondary to a deficiency of hepatic phenylalanine hydroxylase -lrb- pah -rrb- . 
several mutations in the pah gene have recently been reported , and linkage disequilibrium was observed between rflp haplotypes and specific mutations . 
a new molecular lesion has been identified in exon _num1 of the pah gene in a hungarian pku patient by direct sequencing of pcr-amplified dna . 
the c-to-t transition causes the substitution of arg243 to a termination codon , and the mutant allele is associated with haplotype _num1 of the pah gene . 
the mutation is present in two of nine mutant haplotype _num1 alleles among eastern europeans and is not present among western europeans and asians . 
the rarity of this mutant allele and its restricted geographic distribution suggest that the mutational event occurred recently on a normal haplotype _num1 background in eastern europe . . 
isolation of the mouse homologue of brca1 and genetic mapping to mouse chromosome _num2 . 
the brca1 gene is in large part responsible for hereditary human breast and ovarian cancer . 
here we report the isolation of the murine brca1 homologue cdna clones . 
in addition , we identified genomic p1 clones that contain most , if not all , of the mouse brca1 locus . 
dna sequence analysis revealed that the mouse and human coding regions are _num2 % identical at the nucleotide level while the predicted amino acid identity is only _num2 % . 
a dna sequence variant in the brca1 locus was identified and used to map this gene on a -lrb- mus m. musculus czech ii x c57bl / ksj -rrb- f1 x c57bl / ksj intersubspecific backcross to distal mouse chromosome _num2 . 
the mapping of this gene to a region highly syntenic with human chromosome _num2 , coupled with southern and northern analyses , confirms that we isolated the murine brca1 homologue rather than a related ring finger gene . 
the isolation of the mouse brca1 homologue will facilitate the creation of mouse models for germline brca1 defects . . 
human deficiency of the sixth component of complement in a patient with meningococcal meningitis and no haemostasis abnormality . 
a case of human complete c6 deficiency is reported . 
the patient , a _num2 year old white male , was seen on the occasion of an isolated episode of meningococcal meningitis . 
serum complement hemolytic and bactericidal activities were lacking and could be restored to normal by addition of appropriate amounts of purified c6 . 
no hemostatic abnormalities were observed . . 
the wiskott-aldrich syndrome : refinement of the localization on xp and identification of another closely linked marker locus , oatl1 . 
the wiskott-aldrich syndrome -lrb- was -rrb- has previously been mapped to the proximal short arm of the x chromosome between the dxs14 and dxs7 loci . 
in this study , further segregation analysis has been performed using a newly identified was family as well as an additional marker probe , hoatl1 . 
the results indicate close linkage between the was and oatl1 loci -lrb- z = _num1 . 
_num2 at theta = _num1 . 
_num2 -rrb- and localize the timp , oatl1 , dxs255 , and was loci distal to dxs146 and the oatl1 and was loci proximal to timp . 
these linkage data narrow the boundaries within which the was locus maps to the chromosomal region bracketed by timp and dxs146 and support the loci order xpter-dxs7-timp - -lrb- oatl1 , was , dxs255 -rrb- - dxs146 . 
hereditary deficiency of the third component of complement in a child with fever , skin rash , and arthralgias : response to transfusion of whole blood . 
a previously well 34-month-old male presenting with fever , skin rash , and arthralgias was found to lack c3 by immunochemical -lrb- undetectable -rrb- and hemolytic -lrb- _num1 % normal -rrb- assays . 
no infectious agent could be demonstrated . 
protein levels of clq . 
c4 , c5 , properdin , and c3b-ina and hemolytic activities of complement components c1 to c9 except c3 were normal or elevated ; total hemolytic complement activity was _num2 % of normal and was reconstituted by purified c3 . 
properdin factor b was _num3 -lrb- normal _num3 to _num3 -rrb- mug / ml , and was not cleaver upon addition of zymosan or cobra venom factor . 
the serum had normal immune adherence activity , but was deficient in ability to opsonize candida albicans for uptake and escherichia coli for killing by neurophils , generate neutrophil chemotactic factors and inhibit the growth of e. coli ; these activities were restored by purified c3 . 
a transfusion of _num3 ml 1-hour-old normal whole blood on the fifty-second day resulted in transitory elevation of the c3 level to _num2 mg / dl with a fall-off -lrb- approximately 21 / 2 % per hour -rrb- to undetectable levels by _num2 hours ; it was followed by disappearance of the skin rash and arthralgias and return to normal of the previously elevated temperature and crp levels . 
c3 levels in family members -lrb- seven of _num2 half-normal -rrb- , lack of anti-c3 activity , normal c3b-ina levels and a normal rate of catabolism of transfused c3 indicated that the deficiency was inherited with autosomal codominance and involved decreased synthesis of c3 . 
thus , this child is a unique individual with inherited c3 deficiency presenting with absence of repeated infections , whose symptoms of fever , skin rash , and arthralgia were abated by whole blood transfusion . . 
cloning of breakpoints of a chromosome translocation identifies the an2 locus . 
chromosome translocations involving 11p13 have been associated with familial aniridia in two kindreds highlighting the chromosomal localization of the an2 locus . 
this locus is also part of the wagr complex -lrb- wilms tumor , aniridia , genitourinary abnormalities , and mental retardation -rrb- . 
in one kindred , the translocation is associated with a deletion , and probes for this region were used to identify and clone the breakpoints of the translocation in the second kindred . 
comparison of phage restriction maps exclude the presence of any sizable deletion in this case . 
sequences at the chromosome _num2 breakpoint are conserved in multiple species , suggesting that the translocation falls within the an2 gene . . 
study of the voltage-gated sodium channel beta _num1 subunit gene -lrb- scn1b -rrb- in the benign familial infantile convulsions syndrome -lrb- bfic -rrb- . 
benign familial infantile convulsions -lrb- bfic -rrb- is a rare autosomal dominant epilepsy syndrome . 
this syndrome has been recently described in italian and french pedigrees . 
patients present with partial , then generalized seizures , with onset at age three months . 
the seizures usually spontaneously cease after one year without treatment , leaving no neurological abnormalities . 
we have mapped bfic to chromosome 19q in five italian pedigrees . 
the sodium channel beta1 subunit gene -lrb- scn1b -rrb- maps to this candidate region and has been shown to be involved in one australian pedigree with generalized epilepsy and febrile seizures plus -lrb- gefs + -rrb- . 
in this family , a missense mutation in scn1b cosegregates with the gefs + phenotype . 
bfic and gefs + have clinical features in common , therefore scn1b is a candidate gene for bfic . 
we studied scn1b exons _num1 , _num1 , _num1 , _num1 , and _num1 , using four sscp methods in _num2 caucasian bfic probands of western europe . 
we found no exon variants . 
one variant was identified in intron _num1 -lrb- ivs5-10c > g -rrb- , which did not segregate with bfic and was observed in _num1 . 
_num1 % controls . 
a second variant in intron _num1 was identified -lrb- ivs5 + 30g > a -rrb- . 
it was rare , as not observed in controls , but not segregating with the bfic phenotype . 
brain disease and molecular analysis in myotonic dystrophy . 
abnormal amplification of a _ds repeat on chromosome _num2 is the molecular basis of myotonic dystrophy -lrb- dm -rrb- . 
expansion of the repeat has been correlated with severity of several clinical features of the disease . 
we performed extensive cognitive testing , cerebral magnetic resonance imaging -lrb- mri -rrb- and a molecular analysis in _num2 cases of dm to determine the relationship between the molecular defect and brain disease . 
performance in two or more cognitive tests was pathological in _num2 cases . 
fourteen patients had subcortical white matter lesions on mri , _num2 had cerebral atrophy . 
amplification of the _ds repeat showed a strong correlation with cognitive test deficits when exceeding a length of over _num4 trinucleotides . 
mri lesions were associated with impaired psychometric performance , but mri and molecular findings were only weakly related . 
disease duration influenced the appearance and amount of white matter lesions on mri . 
quantification of _ds repeat size may allow an early estimate on the probability of brain involvement in dm ; cognitive dysfunction is associated with white matter lesions and cerebral atrophy later on in the course . . 
a highly accurate , low cost test for brca1 mutations . 
the hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome is associated with a high frequency of brca1 mutations . 
however , the widespread use of brca1 testing has been limited to date by three principal concerns the fear of loss of health and life insurance , the uncertain clinical value of a positive test result , and the current lack of an inexpensive and sensitive screening test for brca1 mutations . 
we have developed an inexpensive system for gene mutational scanning , based on a combination of extensive multiplex pcr amplification and two dimensional electrophoresis . 
the efficiency of this system , as a screening test for brca1 mutations , was evaluated in a panel of _num2 samples from high risk women , _num2 of which contained a previously identified mutation in brca1 . 
all _num2 mutations were identified , as well as an additional five that had previously escaped detection . 
in addition to the _num2 mutations , a total of _num2 different polymorphic variants were scored , most of which were recurring . 
all were confirmed by nucleotide sequencing . 
the cost of screening per sample was calculated to be approximately us $ _num2 for the manual technique used in this study , and may be reduced to approximately us $ _num2 with the introduction of commercially available pcr robotics and fluorescent imaging . 
implementation of this method of mutation screening in the research and clinical setting should permit rapid accrual of quantitative data on genotype-phenotype associations for the evaluation of diagnostic testing . . 
germline mutations of the apc gene in korean familial adenomatous polyposis patients . 
we extensively analyzed genomic dna and messenger rna -lrb- mrna -rrb- from _num2 unrelated korean patients with familial adenomatous polyposis -lrb- fap -rrb- for identification of germline adenomatous polyposis coli -lrb- apc -rrb- gene mutations . 
we adopted both single-strand conformation polymorphism -lrb- sscp -rrb- analysis and a method of analysis involving the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction -lrb- rt-pcr -rrb- followed by a protein truncation test -lrb- ptt -rrb- . 
dna sequencing confirmed all alterations represented by aberrant bands . 
germline mutations were identified in _num2 patients -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- . 
nineteen of the detected mutations were presumed to be novel , thus emphasizing the heterogeneity of the mutational spectrum in korean fap patients . 
in the initial _num2 patients , sscp analysis was followed by ptt for those patients for whom no detectable mutations were found by sscp . 
using this combined approach , we identified germline apc gene mutations in _num2 of the _num2 fap patients -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- , including _num1 patients in whom sscp analysis failed to distinguish the mutant allele . 
in the _num2 later patients , we identified truncating mutations in _num1 patients -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- using ptt only . 
our results confirm that the mutation detection rate with ptt was superior to that with sscp , and suggest that ptt would be a more practical screening method to detect germline mutations of the apc gene in fap patients . 
homozygosity mapping in a family with microcephaly , mental retardation , and short stature to a cohen syndrome region on 8q21.3-8q22 .1 : redefining a clinical entity . 
a syndrome of microcephaly , progressive postnatal growth deficiency , and mental retardation was observed in two brothers and their cousin from a multiply consanguineous kindred of lebanese descent . 
hypotonia , chorioretinal dystrophy , and myopia were also identified . 
the severity of the condition varied among the closely related patients . 
because of absence of a distinctive facial appearance , the degree of mental retardation , and short stature , the initially considered clinical diagnosis of cohen syndrome was withdrawn and a novel genetic entity was assumed . 
homozygosity mapping in this family assigned the gene to a _num2 . 
8-cm region on the chromosome band 8q21 . 
_num1 -22 . 
_num1 , between the microsatellites at d8s270 and d8s514 . 
the maximum two-point lod score was found for marker at d8s267 -lrb- zmax = _num1 . . 
_num3 at omax = _num1 . 
_num2 -rrb- . 
intriguingly enough , the identified gene region overlaps the refined gene region for cohen syndrome -lrb- coh1 -rrb- -lsb- kolehmainen et al. , _num4 euro j hum genet _num1 206-213 -rsb- . 
this fact encourages the hypothesis that the described kindred segregates for a variant of cohen syndrome and suggests a redefinition of its phenotype spontaneous reversion of novel lesch-nyhan mutation by hprt gene rearrangement . 
molecular analysis of an unusual patient with the lesch-nyhan syndrome has suggested that the mutation is due to a partial hprt gene duplication . 
we now report the cloning and sequencing of the mutant hprt cdna which shows the precise duplication of exons _num1 and _num1 . 
this mutation is the result of an internal duplication of 16-20 kilobases of the gene . 
the structure of the mutant gene suggests that the duplication was not generated by a single unequal crossing-over event between two normal hprt alleles . 
growth of epstein-barr virus-transformed lymphoblasts from this patient in selective medium has permitted isolation of spontaneous hprt + revertants of this mutation . 
the reversion event involves a second major hprt gene rearrangement where most or all of the duplicated portion of the mutant gene is deleted . 
the original mutation therefore has the potential for spontaneous somatic reversion . 
this may explain the relatively mild symptoms of the lesch-nyhan syndrome exhibited by this patient . . 
nephropathy in the wiskott-aldrich syndrome . 
nephropathy was detected in five of _num2 patients with the wiskott-aldrich syndrome who were participating in a study of transfer factor -lrb- tf -rrb- therapy . 
in two patients , nephropathy was present before tf and did not appear changed by tf therapy . 
one of these patients subsequently developed progressive renal failure requiring dialysis beginning 51 / 2 years after tf therapy . 
in two patients , decreased renal function appeared very soon after the administration of tf . 
one patient showed gradually decreasing renal function beginning after two years of tf therapy . 
an additional patient was identified who died with renal failure without having received tf . 
the results suggest that renal failure occurs in the wiskott-aldrich syndrome more frequently than generally recognized and that administration of tf may precipitate or accelerate the renal disease in patients with this syndrome . . 
aniridia associated cytogenetic rearrangements suggest that a position effect may cause the mutant phenotype . 
current evidence suggests that aniridia -lrb- absence of iris -rrb- is caused by loss of function of one copy of the pax6 gene , which maps to 11p13 . 
we present the further characterisation of two aniridia pedigrees in which the disease segregates with chromosomal rearrangements which involve 11p13 but do not disrupt the pax6 gene . 
we have isolated three human yac clones which encompass the pax6 locus and we have used these to show that in both cases the chromosomal breakpoint is at least _num2 kb distal of the _num1 end of pax6 . 
in addition , the open reading frame of pax6 is apparently free of mutations . 
we propose that the pax6 gene on the rearranged chromosome _num2 is in an inappropriate chromatin environment for normal expression and therefore that a position effect is the underlying mechanism of disease in these families . . 
genetic cholesteryl ester transfer protein deficiency caused by two prevalent mutations as a major determinant of increased levels of high density lipoprotein cholesterol . 
genetic determinants of hdl cholesterol -lrb- hdl-c -rrb- levels in the general population are poorly understood . 
we previously described plasma cholesteryl ester transfer protein -lrb- cetp -rrb- deficiency due to an intron _num2 g -lrb- + _num1 -rrb- - to-a mutation -lrb- int14 a -rrb- in several families with very high hdl-c levels in japan . 
subjects with hdl-c > or = _num3 mg / dl -lrb- n = _num3 -rrb- were screened by pcr single strand conformational polymorphism analysis of the cetp gene . 
two other mutations were identified by dna sequencing or primer-mediated restriction map modification of pcr products a novel intron _num2 splice donor site mutation caused by a t insertion at position + _num1 from the exon14 / intron14 boundary -lrb- int14 t -rrb- and a missense mutation -lrb- asp442 to gly -rrb- within exon _num2 -lrb- d442g -rrb- . 
the int14 t mutation was only found in one family . 
however , the d442g and int14 a mutations were highly prevalent in subjects with hdl-c > or = _num2 mg / dl , with combined allele frequencies of _num1 % , _num2 % , _num2 % and _num2 % for hdl-c 60-79 , 80-99 , 100-119 , and > or = _num3 mg / dl , respectively . 
furthermore , prevalences of the d442g and int14 a mutations were extremely high in a general sample of japanese men -lrb- n = _num3 -rrb- , with heterozygote frequencies of _num1 % and _num1 % , respectively . 
these two mutations accounted for about _num2 % of the total variance of hdl-c in this population . 
the phenotype in a genetic compound heterozygote -lrb- int14 t and int14 a -rrb- was similar to that of int14 a homozygotes -lrb- no detectable cetp and markedly increased hdl-c -rrb- , indicating that the int14 t produces a null allele . 
in four d442g homozygotes , mean hdl-c levels -lrb- _num2 + / - _num2 mg / dl -rrb- were lower than in int14 a homozygotes -lrb- _num3 + / - _num2 mg / dl -rrb- , reflecting residual cetp activity in plasma . 
in _num2 d442g heterozygotes , mean hdl-c levels were _num2 + / - _num2 mg / dl , similar to the level in d442g homozygotes , and significantly greater than mean hdl-c levels in int14 a heterozygotes -lrb- _num2 + / - _num2 mg / dl -rrb- . 
thus , the d442g mutation acts differently to the null mutations with weaker effects on hdl in the homozygous state and stronger effects in the heterozygotes , suggesting dominant expression of a partially defective allele . 
cetp deficiency , reflecting two prevalent mutations -lrb- d442g and int14 a -rrb- , is the first example of a genetic deficiency state which is sufficiently common to explain a significant fraction of the variation in hdl-c in the general population . . 
x-linked glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency in mus musculus . 
a mouse with x-linked glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase -lrb- g6pd -rrb- deficiency has been recovered in offspring of 1-ethyl-1-nitrosourea-treated male mice . 
the activity alteration was detected in blood but can also be observed in other tissue extracts . 
hemizygous , heterozygous , and homozygous mutants have , respectively , about _num2 , _num2 , and _num2 % g6pd remaining activity in the blood as compared to the wild type . 
erythrocyte indices did not show differences between mutants and wild types . 
the mutation does not affect the electrophoretic migration , the isoelectric point , or the thermal stability . 
kinetic properties , such as the km for glucose-6-phosphate or for nadp and the relative utilization of substrate analogues , showed no differences between wild types and mutants with the exception of the relative utilization of deamino-nadp which was significantly lower in mutants . 
this is presently the only animal model for x-linked g6pd deficiency in humans . . 
human glycine decarboxylase gene -lrb- gldc -rrb- and its highly conserved processed pseudogene -lrb- psigldc -rrb- : their structure and expression , and the identification of a large deletion in a family with nonketotic hyperglycinemia . 
mutations in the glycine decarboxylase gene -lrb- gldc -rrb- cause nonketotic hyperglycinemia -lrb- nkh -rrb- , an in-born error of metabolism characterized by severe neurological disturbance . 
we have determined the structure of gldc and of its pseudogene -lrb- psigldc -rrb- and studied their expression for a molecular analysis of nkh . 
the gldc gene spans at least _num3 kb and consists of _num2 exons . 
all donor and acceptor sites adhere to the canonical gt-ag rule , except for the donor site of intron _num2 , where a variant form _ds is used instead of _ds . 
the transcription initiation site has been assigned to a residue _num3 bp upstream from the translation initiation triplet by primer extension analysis . 
the psigldc gene has no intron and shares _num2 . 
_num1 % homology with the coding region of functional gldc , suggesting that psigldc is a processed pseudogene that arose from the gldc transcript about 4-8 million years ago . 
rna blotting analysis has revealed that gldc is expressed in human liver , kidney , brain , and placenta . 
we have also examined a patient with nkh with no detectable gldc mrna in his lymphoblasts . 
exons 1-3 of the functional gldc gene from this patient are not amplified by polymerase chain reaction -lrb- pcr -rrb- , whereas those from control subjects are . 
these results suggest a large homozygous deletion -lrb- at least _num2 kb -rrb- in the patient . 
furthermore , we have devised a semi-quantitative pcr to estimate the number of gldc alleles by using psigldc as an internal control and have confirmed the homozygosity and heterozygosity of the deletion in the patient and his parents , respectively . 
structural information of gldc and psigldc should facilitate the molecular analysis of nkh . 
growth retardation and tumour inhibition by brca1 . 
inherited mutations in brca1 predispose to breast and ovarian cancer , but the role of brca1 in sporadic breast and ovarian cancer has previously been elusive . 
here , we show that retroviral transfer of the wild-type brca1 gene inhibits growth in vitro of all breast and ovarian cancer cell lines tested , but not colon or lung cancer cells or fibroblasts . 
mutant brca1 has no effect on growth of breast cancer cells ; ovarian cancer cell growth is not affected by brca1 mutations in the _num1 portion of the gene , but is inhibited by _num1 brca1 mutations . 
development of mcf-7 tumours in nude mice is inhibited when mcf-7 cells are transfected with wild-type , but not mutant , brca1 . 
most importantly , among mice with established mcf-7 tumours , peritoneal treatment with a retroviral vector expressing wild-type brca1 significantly inhibits tumour growth and increased survival . . 
striking prevalence of ankylosing spondylitis in `` healthy '' _an positive males and females . 
ankylosing spondylitis is diagnosed once or twice in each _num4 males and one tenth as frequently in females , but the true prevalence is unknown . 
indentification of genetic marker , hl-a _an , for susceptible persons has provided a tool facilitating epidemiologic studies and allowing identification of '' control '' populations without the marker . 
evaluation by postal questionnaires , and pelvic radiography of _num2 hl-a 27w-positive blood donors selected from a group of apparently healthy subjects revealed _num2 who satisfied the criteria for definite ankylosing spondylitis . 
the prevalence was similar in both sexes . 
one hundred and twenty-six w27-negative controls matched for race , sex , and age failed to yield a single case . 
for a person of either sex with hl-a _an , there appears to be about a _num2 per cent chance that ankylosing spondylitis will develop , suggesting a prevalence of _num2 to _num2 per thousand . 
hitherto accepted figures may underestimate the frequency by a factor of _num2 to _num2 . . 
rapid detection of brca1 mutations by the protein truncation test . 
more than _num2 % of the reported mutations in the hereditary breast and ovarian cancer gene , brca1 , result in truncated proteins . 
we have used the protein truncation test -lrb- ptt -rrb- to screen for mutations in exon _num2 , which encodes _num2 % of brca1 . 
in _num2 patients from breast and / or ovarian cancer families we found six novel mutations two single nucleotide insertions , three small deletions -lrb- 1-5 bp -rrb- and a nonsense mutation identified two unrelated families . 
furthermore , we were able to amplify the remaining coding region by rt-pcr using lymphocyte rna . 
combined with ptt , we detected aberrantly spliced products affecting exons _num1 and _num1 in one of two brca1-linked families examined . 
the protein truncation test promises to become a valuable technique in detecting brca1 mutations . . 
new variant in exon _num1 of the proteolipid protein -lrb- plp -rrb- gene in a family with pelizaeus-merzbacher disease . 
a c -- greater than g transversion has been found in exon _num1 of the plp gene of affected males and their mother in a single sibship with pelizaeus-merzbacher disease -lrb- pmd -rrb- . 
the transversion should not result in an amino acid change in the protein but it does result in the loss of a haeiii restriction endonuclease cleavage site . 
it is concordant with the disease in this family . 
one-hundred-ten unrelated x chromosomes are negative for this mutation . 
no other sequence defect was found in the plp exons of the affected males . 
the cause of disease in this family remains unknown , but the association between this rare mutation and pmd is intriguing . 
the mutation can serve as a marker for following segregation of the plp gene . . 
variants of erythrocyte glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase -lrb- g6pd -rrb- in bulgarian populations . 
ten variants of erythrocyte glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase were identified in _num2 patients with g6pd deficiency from three districts of bulgaria . 
corinth-like and fayoum-like variants were the most frequent ; mediterranean , ohut ii , kilgore , boston , poznan , and panay variants and two new variants , petrich and gotze delchev , were each found in one or two carriers . 
no correlation was revealed between clinical and biochemical polymorphism . . 
the c282y mutation causing hereditary hemochromatosis does not produce a null allele . 
targeted mutagenesis was used to produce two mutations in the murine hemochromatosis gene -lrb- hfe -rrb- locus . 
the first mutation deletes a large portion of the coding sequence , generating a null allele . 
the second mutation introduces a missense mutation -lrb- c282y -rrb- into the hfe locus , but otherwise leaves the gene intact . 
this mutation is identical to the disease-causing mutation in patients with hereditary hemochromatosis . 
mice carrying each of the two mutations were bred and analyzed . 
homozygosity for either mutation results in postnatal iron loading . 
the effects of the null mutation are more severe than the effects of the c282y mutation . 
mice heterozygous for either mutation accumulate more iron than normal controls . 
interestingly , although liver iron stores are greatly increased , splenic iron is decreased . 
we conclude that the c282y mutation does not result in a null allele . . 
regional localisation of the friedreich ataxia locus to human chromosome 9q13 -- _an .1 . 
we have previously assigned the friedreich ataxia locus -lrb- frda -rrb- to chromosome _num1 ; the current maximal lod score between frda and mct112 -lrb- d9s15 -rrb- is greater than _num2 at a recombination fraction of theta = _num1 . 
the physical assignment of the locus defined by mct112 , and hence frda , has not been determined , although linkage analysis of mct112 with other chromosome _num1 markers inferred a location close to the centromere . 
we have used in situ hybridisation with mct112 , a corresponding cosmid mj1 , and dr47 -lrb- d9s5 -rrb- , coupled with mapping studies on hybrid cell panels , to define more precisely the location of the disease locus . 
the in situ location of all three probes is 9q13 -- _an . 
_num1 , distal to the variable heterochromatin region . 
physical assignment of frda will allow us to identify hybrid cell lines containing the mutated gene . 
mxi1 mutations in human neurofibrosarcomas . 
mxi1 is thought to negatively regulate myc function and may therefore be a potential tumor suppressor gene . 
little effort has yet been made to find alterations involving this gene in human solid tumors . 
we screened _num2 human gastric cancers , _num1 esophageal cancers , _num2 bone and soft tissue tumors of various types , including _num1 neurofibrosarcomas . 
we also examined _num2 human tumor cell lines consisting of _num2 esophageal cancers , _num1 glioma / glioblastomas and _num2 others for mxi1 mutations in exons _num1 , _num1 , _num1 -lrb- hlh domain -rrb- , _num1 and _num1 . 
polymerase chain reaction-single-strand conformation polymorphism -lrb- pcr-sscp -rrb- and subsequent sequencing revealed three distinct polymorphisms in the intron-exon boundary upstream from exon _num1 . 
we discovered a missense mutation , _ds to _ds -lrb- ala _num2 val -rrb- , in exon _num1 in a neurofibrosarcoma patient -lrb- case _num1 -rrb- , two missense mutations , _ds to _ds -lrb- lys _num3 gln -rrb- and _ds to _ds -lrb- glu _num3 gly -rrb- in exon _num1 of another neurofibrosarcoma patient -lrb- case _num1 -rrb- , and _num1 amino acid substitutions , _ds to _ds -lrb- val _num3 ala -rrb- , _ds to _ds -lrb- val _num3 ala -rrb- and _ds to _ds -lrb- phe _num3 leu -rrb- , in a third neurofibrosarcoma patient -lrb- case _num1 -rrb- . 
in case _num1 , loss of heterozygosity was also demonstrated by informative -lrb- _ds -rrb- _num1 / -lrb- _ds -rrb- _num1 polymorphism . 
our data demonstrate that mutations occur in the mxi1 gene in neurofibrosarcoma . 
missense mutations in the functional domain of mxi1 in these cases may be involved in the pathogenesis of neurofibrosarcoma . . 
molecular basis of essential fructosuria : molecular cloning and mutational analysis of human ketohexokinase -lrb- fructokinase -rrb- . 
essential fructosuria is one of the oldest known inborn errors of metabolism . 
it is a benign condition which is believed to result from deficiency of hepatic fructokinase -lrb- ketohexokinase , khk , e. c. _num1 . 
_num1 . 
_num1 . 
_num1 -rrb- . 
this enzyme catalyses the first step of metabolism of dietary fructose , conversion of fructose to fructose-1-phosphate . 
despite the early recognition of this disorder , the primary structure of human khk and the molecular basis of essential fructosuria have not been previously defined . 
in this report , the isolation and sequencing of full-length cdna clones encoding human ketohexokinase are described . 
alternative mrna species and alternative khk isozymes are produced by alternative polyadenylation and splicing of the khk gene . 
the khk proteins show a high level of sequence conservation relative to rat khk . 
direct evidence that mutation of the khk structural gene is the cause of essential fructosuria was also obtained . 
in a well-characterized family , in which three of eight siblings have fructosuria , all affected individuals are compound heterozygotes for two mutations gly40arg and ala43thr . 
both mutations result from g -- > a transitions , and each alters the same conserved region of the khk protein . 
neither mutation was seen in a sample of _num2 unrelated control individuals . 
an additional conservative amino acid change -lrb- val49iie -rrb- was present on the khk allele bearing ala43thr loss of the ataxia-telangiectasia gene product causes oxidative damage in target organs . 
ataxia-telangiectasia -lrb- a-t -rrb- is characterized by a markedly increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation , increased incidence of cancer , and neurodegeneration , especially of the cerebellar purkinje cells . 
ionizing radiation oxidizes macromolecules and causes tissue damage through the generation of reactive oxygen species -lrb- ros -rrb- . 
we therefore hypothesized that a-t is due to oxidative damage resulting from loss of function of the a-t gene product . 
to assess this hypothesis , we employed an animal model of a-t , the mouse with a disrupted atm gene . 
we show that organs which develop pathologic changes in the atm-deficient mice are targets of oxidative damage , and that cerebellar purkinje cells are particularly affected . 
these observations provide a mechanistic basis for the a-t phenotype and lay a rational foundation for therapeutic intervention . . 
family studies in bechterew's syndrome -lrb- ankylosing spondylitis -rrb- iii . 
genetics . 
the results of segregation analyses in _num2 families where the proband had ankylosing spondylitis , are presented . 
of the _num3 adult , living first degree relatives , approximately _num2 % cooperated in the study . 
clinical and radiographical examinations were performed and hla typing was conducted . 
the results were in agreement with our hypothesis that ankylosing spondylitis is part of a syndrome where different genetic factors interact . 
such known factors are hla _an associated disease susceptibility , susceptibility to psoriatic arthropathy and susceptibility to entero-arthropathy . 
radiographical sacro-iliitis was restricted to hla _an positive relatives , and was more frequently found in relatives to probands with psoriasis than in relatives to probands without psoriasis . 
environmental factors -lrb- intestinal bacteria -rrb- are known to trigger the disease at least in some persons , and we have postulated that all or most of them have the predisposition to develop disease . 
thus , the syndrome has a multifactorial etiology . 
the phenotypic expressions of the different genetic predispositions involved , include sacro-iliitis , psoriasis , acute anterior uveitis , peripheral arthropathy and inflammatory bowel disease . 
we suggest the descriptive name hereditary multifocal relapsing inflammation -lrb- hemri -rrb- for this syndrome . 
ankylosing spondylitis , psoriatic arthropathy and entero-arthropathy may be regarded as clinical sub-types of the syndrome . . 
chromosome mapping of the rod photoreceptor cgmp phosphodiesterase beta-subunit gene in mouse and human : tight linkage to the huntington disease region -lrb- 4p16 .3 -rrb- . 
the retinal degeneration mouse -lrb- gene symbol , rd -rrb- is an animal model for certain forms of human hereditary retinopathies . 
recent findings of a nonsense mutation in the rd mouse pde beta-subunit gene -lrb- pdeb -rrb- prompted us to investigate the chromosome locations of the mouse and human genes . 
we have utilized backcross analysis in mice to verify and define more precisely the location of the pdeb locus _num1 . 
_num1 + / - _num1 . 
_num1 cm distal of mgsa on mouse chromosome _num1 . 
we have determined that the human gene -lrb- pdeb -rrb- maps to 4p16 . 
_num1 , very close to the huntington disease -lrb- hd -rrb- region . 
analysis of the comparative map for mice and humans shows that the mouse homologue of the hd gene will reside on chromosome _num1 . 
linkage of the mouse pdeb locus with other homologues in the human 4p16 . 
_num1 region is maintained but gene order is not , suggesting at least three possible sites for the corresponding mouse hd gene . 
hereditary deficiency of the fifth component of complement in man . 
ii . 
biological properties of c5-deficient human serum . 
the first known human kindred with hereditary deficiency of the fifth component of complement -lrb- c5 -rrb- was documented in the accompanying report . 
this study examines several biological properties of c5-deficient -lrb- c5d -rrb- human serum , particularly sera obtained from two c5d homozygotes . 
the proband , who has inactive systemic lupus erythematosus is completely lacking c5 , while her healthy half-sister has 1-2 % of normal levels . 
both sera were severely impaired in their ability to generate chemotactic activity for normal human neutrophils upon incubation with aggregated human gamma-globulin or escherichia coli endotoxin . 
this function was fully restored in the siblings serum , and substantially improved in the probands serum , by addition of highly purified human c5 to normal serum concentrations . 
sera from eight family members who were apparently heterozygous for c5 deficiency gave normal chemotactic scores . 
the ability of c5d serum to opsonize saccharomyces cerevisiae -lrb- bakers yeast -rrb- or candida albicans for ingestion by normal neutrophils was completely normal . 
in addition , c5d serum was capable of promoting normal phagocytosis and intracellular killing of staphylococcus aureus . 
the probands serum was incapable of mediating lysis of erythrocytes from a patient with paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria in both the sucrose hemolysia and acid hemolysis tests , and also lacked bactericidal activity against sensitized or unsensitized salmonella typhi . 
the siblings serum , containing only 1-2 % of normal c5 , effectively lysed s. typhi , but only at eightfold lower serum dilutions as compared to normals . 
these findings underscore the critical role of c5 in the generation of chemotactic activity and in cytolytic reactions , as opposed to a nonobligatory or minimal role in opsonization , at least for the organisms under study . . 
the gene for familial mediterranean fever , mefv , is expressed in early leukocyte development and is regulated in response to inflammatory mediators . 
familial mediterranean fever -lrb- fmf -rrb- is a recessive disorder characterized by episodes of fever and neutrophil-mediated serosal inflammation . 
we recently identified the gene causing fmf , designated mefv , and found it to be expressed in mature neutrophils , suggesting that it functions as an inflammatory regulator . 
to facilitate our understanding of the normal function of mefv , we extended our previous studies . 
mefv messenger rna was detected by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction in bone marrow leukocytes , with differential expression observed among cells by in situ hybridization . 
cd34 hematopoietic stem-cell cultures induced toward the granulocytic lineage expressed mefv at the myelocyte stage , concurrently with lineage commitment . 
the prepromyelocytic cell line hl60 expressed mefv only at granulocytic and monocytic differentiation . 
mefv was also expressed in the monocytic cell lines _an and thp-1 . 
among peripheral blood leukocytes , mefv expression was detected in neutrophils , eosinophils , and to varying degrees , monocytes . 
consistent with the tissue specificity of expression , complete sequencing and analysis of upstream regulatory regions of mefv revealed homology to myeloid-specific promoters and to more broadly expressed inflammatory promoter elements . 
in vitro stimulation of monocytes with the proinflammatory agents interferon -lrb- ifn -rrb- gamma , tumor necrosis factor , and lipopolysaccharide induced mefv expression , whereas the antiinflammatory cytokines interleukin -lrb- il -rrb- _num1 , il-10 , and transforming growth factor beta inhibited such expression . 
induction by ifn-gamma occurred rapidly and was resistant to cycloheximide . 
ifn-alpha also induced mefv expression . 
in granulocytes , mefv was up-regulated by ifn-gamma and the combination of ifn-alpha and colchicine . 
these results refine understanding of mefv by placing the gene in the myelomonocytic-specific proinflammatory pathway and identifying it as an ifn-gamma immediate early gene . . 
spectrum of hsnf5 / ini1 somatic mutations in human cancer and genotype-phenotype correlations . 
the hsnf5 / ini1 gene which encodes a member of the swi / snf chromatin atp-dependent remodeling complex , is a new tumor suppressor gene localized on chromosome 22q11 . 
_num1 and recently shown to be mutated in malignant rhabdoid tumors . 
we have searched for hsnf5 / ini1 mutations in _num3 tumors of various origins using a screening method based on denaturing high-performance liquid chromatography . 
a total of _num2 homozygous deletions and _num2 point alterations were identified . 
point mutations were scattered along the coding sequence and included _num2 nonsense , _num2 frameshift , three splice site , two missense and one editing mutations . 
mutations were retrieved in most rhabdoid tumors , whatever their sites of occurrence , indicating the common pathogenetic origin of these tumors . 
recurrent hsnf5 / ini1 alterations were also observed in choroid plexus carcinomas and in a subset of central primitive neuroectodermal tumors -lrb- cpnets -rrb- and medulloblastomas . 
in contrast , hsnf5 / ini1 point mutations were not detected in breast cancers , wilms tumors , gliomas , ependymomas , sarcomas and other tumor types , even though most analyzed cases harbored loss of heterozygosity at 22q11 . 
_num1 loci . 
these results suggest that rhabdoid tumors , choroid plexus carcinomas and a subset of medulloblastomas and cpnets share common pathways of oncogenesis related to hsnf5 / ini1 alteration and that hsnf5 / ini1 mutations define a genetically homogeneous family of highly aggressive cancers mainly occurring in young children and frequently , but not always , exhibiting a rhabdoid phenotype heterogeneity of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency in algeria . 
study in northern algeria with description of five new variants . 
glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase -lrb- g6pd -rrb- deficiency was found in _num1 . 
_num1 % of the male population living in the urban area of algiers . 
the deficient subjects originated from multiple geographic regions of northern algeria , with prevalence of individuals of berber-kabyle origin . 
red blood cell g6pd was partially purified and characterized in deficient males from _num2 families , and six different variants were found . 
among them , only one , the gd -lrb- - -rrb- kabyle variant , had been previously described . 
it was detected in nine families . 
the other five variants were new gd -lrb- - -rrb- laghouat -lrb- four cases -rrb- , gd -lrb- - -rrb- blida -lrb- one case -rrb- , gd -lrb- - -rrb- thenia -lrb- one case -rrb- , gd -lrb- - -rrb- titteri -lrb- one case -rrb- , and gd -lrb- - -rrb- alger -lrb- two brothers -rrb- . 
strikingly , the common mediterranean variant was not found . 
g6pd deficiency is heterogeneous in northern algeria where autochtonous variants seem to prevail . 
the kabyle variant may be common in this country . 
fragile x syndrome without _ds amplification has an fmr1 deletion . 
we describe a patient with typical clinical features of the fragile x syndrome , but without cytogenetic expression of the fragile x or an amplified _ds trinucleotide repeat fragment . 
the patient has a previously uncharacterized submicroscopic deletion encompassing the _ds repeat , the entire fmr1 gene and about _num1 . 
_num1 megabases of flanking sequences . 
this finding confirms that the fragile x phenotype can exist , without amplification of the _ds repeat or cytogenetic expression of the fragile x , and that fragile x syndrome is a genetically homogeneous disorder involving fmr1 . 
we also found random x-inactivation in the mother of the patient who was shown to be a carrier of this deletion . 
confirmation of linkage of van der woude syndrome to chromosome 1q32 : evidence of association with str alleles suggests possible unique origin of the disease mutation . 
van der woude syndrome -lrb- vws -rrb- is an autosomal dominant craniofacial disorder with high penetrance and variable expression . 
its clinical features are variably expressed , but include cleft lip and / or cleft palate , lip pits and hypodontia . 
all vws families studied to date map the disease gene to a < _num1 cm region of chromosome 1q32 , with no evidence of locus heterogeneity . 
the aim of this study is to refine the localization of the vws gene and to further assess possible heterogeneity . 
we analyzed four multiplex vws families . 
all available members were clinically assessed and genotyped for _num2 short tandem repeat markers on chromosome _num1 in the vws candidate gene region . 
we performed two-point and multipoint limit of detection -lrb- lod -rrb- score analyses using a high penetrance autosomal dominant model . 
all families showed positive lod scores without any recombination in the candidate region . 
the largest two-point lod score was _num1 . 
_num2 _num2 . 
our assay method for short tandem repeat -lrb- str -rrb- markers provided highly accurate size estimation of marker allele fragment sizes , and therefore enabled us to determine the specific alleles segregating with the vws gene in each of our four families . 
we observed a striking pattern of str allele sharing at several closely linked loci among our four caucasian vws families recruited at three different locations in the us . 
these results suggest the possibility of a unique origin for a mutation responsible for many or most cases of vws . 
the carrier frequency of the brca1 185delag mutation is approximately _num1 percent in ashkenazi jewish individuals . 
since brca1 , the first major gene responsible for inherited breast cancer , was cloned , more than _num2 unique mutations have been detected in the germline of individuals with breast and ovarian cancer . 
in high-risk pedigrees , female carriers of brca1 mutations have an 80-90 % lifetime risk of breast cancer , and a 40-50 % risk of ovarian cancer . 
however , the mutation stats of individuals unselected for breast or ovarian cancer has not been determined , and it is not known whether mutations in such individuals confer the same risk of cancer as in individuals from the high-risk families studied so far . 
following the finding of a 185delag frameshift mutation in several ashkenazi jewish breast / ovarian families , we have determined the frequency of this mutation in _num3 ashkenazim seeking genetic testing for conditions unrelated to cancer , and in _num3 reference individuals not selected for ethnic origin . 
we observed the 185delag mutation in _num1 . 
_num1 % of ashkenazim -lrb- _num2 % confidence limit , _num1 . 
4-1 . 
_num1 % -rrb- and in none of the reference samples . 
our results suggest that one in a hundred women of ashkenazi descent may be at especially high risk of developing breast and / or ovarian cancer . 
targeted modification of the apolipoprotein b gene results in hypobetalipoproteinemia and developmental abnormalities in mice . 
familial hypobetalipoproteinemia is an autosomal codominant disorder resulting in a dramatic reduction in plasma concentrations of apolipoprotein -lrb- apo -rrb- b , cholesterol , and beta-migrating lipoproteins . 
a benefit of hypobetalipoproteinemia is that mildly affected individuals may be protected from coronary vascular disease . 
we have used gene targeting to generate mice with a modified apob allele . 
mice containing this allele display all of the hallmarks of human hypobetalipoproteinemia they produce a truncated apob protein , apob70 , and have markedly decreased plasma concentrations of apob , beta-lipoproteins , and total cholesterol . 
in addition , the mice manifest several characteristics that are occasionally observed in human hypobetalipoproteinemia , including reduced plasma triglyceride concentrations , fasting chylomicronemia , and reduced high density lipoprotein cholesterol . 
an unexpected finding is that the modified apob allele is strongly associated with exencephalus and hydrocephalus . 
these mice should help increase our understanding of hypobetalipoproteinemia , atherogenesis , and the etiology of exencephalus and hydrocephalus . . 
common mutations in brca1 and brca2 do not contribute to early prostate cancer in jewish men . 
background families with a high incidence of hereditary breast cancer , and subsequently shown to have terminating mutations in brca1 or brca2 , appear to have a higher incidence of prostate cancer among male relatives . 
we aimed to determine whether the common germline mutations of brca1 or brca2 in ashkenazi jewish men predisposed them to prostate cancer . 
methods we examined genomic dna from _num2 -lrb- for brca1 185delag -rrb- or _num2 -lrb- for brca2 6174delt -rrb- ashkenazi jewish prostate cancer patients , most of whom were treated at a relatively young age , for the most common germline mutation in each gene seen in the ashkenazi population . 
results our study should have been able to detect a 4-5-fold increase in the risk of prostate cancer due to mutation of brca1 or brca2 . 
however , only one -lrb- _num1 . 
_num2 % ; _num2 % confidence interval , 0-3 . 
_num1 % -rrb- of the patients was heterozygous for the brca1 mutant allele , and only two were heterozygous for the brca2 mutation -lrb- _num1 . 
_num1 % ; _num2 % confidence interval , 0-6 . 
_num1 % -rrb- . 
conclusions the incidence of each of the germline mutations in these prostate cancer patients closely matched their incidence -lrb- about _num1 % -rrb- in the general ashkenazi jewish population . 
this suggests that unlike cases of breast and ovarian cancers , mutations in brca1 or brca2 do not significantly predispose men to prostate cancer two new variants of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase associated with hereditary non-spherocytic hemolytic anemia : g6pd wayne and g6pd huron . 
two new deficient variants of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase -lrb- g6pd -rrb- causing hereditary nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia -lrb- hnsha -rrb- are described . 
both of these are unique and they have been named g6pd wayne and g6pd huron . 
patients with g6pd wayne underwent splenectomy and no objective improvement was noted . 
the patients with g6pd huron were under medical observation for a considerable period of time without the diagnosis of g6pd deficiency being entertained because the family was of northern european origin . 
since sporadic variants of g6pd causing hnsha show no special racial predilection , the diagnosis of g6pd deficiency should always be considered in patients with this syndrome . . 
the tay-sachs disease gene in north american jewish populations : geographic variations and origin . 
from data collected in a north american tay-sachs disease -lrb- tsd -rrb- heterozygote screening program , the tsd carrier frequency among _num2 , _num3 jewish individuals was found to be . 
_num4 -lrb- _num1 in _num2 individuals -rrb- . 
this frequency is consistent with earlier estimates based on tsd incidence data . 
tsd carrier frequencies were then examined by single country and single region of origin in _num2 , _num3 jews within this sample for whom such data were available for analysis . 
jews with polish and / or russian ancestry constituted _num2 % of this sample and had a tsd carrier frequency of . 
_num4 . 
no tsd carriers were observed among the _num3 jews of near eastern origins . 
relative to jews of polish and russian origins , there was at least a twofold increase in the tsd carrier frequency in jews of austrian , hungarian , and czechoslovakian origins -lrb- p less than . 
_num3 -rrb- . 
these findings suggest that the tsd gene proliferated among the antecedents of modern ashkenazi jewry after the second diaspora -lrb- _num2 a. d. -rrb- and before their major migrations to regions of poland and russia -lrb- before _num4 a. d. -rrb- . 
novel inherited mutations and variable expressivity of brca1 alleles , including the founder mutation 185delag in ashkenazi jewish families . 
thirty-seven families with four or more cases of breast cancer or breast and ovarian cancer were analyzed for mutations in brca1 . 
twelve different germ-line mutations , four novel and eight previously observed , were detected in _num2 families . 
five families of ashkenazi jewish descent carried the 185delag mutation and shared the same haplotype at eight polymorphic markers spanning approximately _num3 kb at brca1 . 
expressivity of 185delag in these families varied , from early-onset breast cancer without ovarian cancer . 
mutation 4184deltcaa occurred independently in two families . 
in one family , penetrance was complete , with females developing early-onset breast cancer or ovarian cancer and the male carrier developing prostatic cancer , whereas , in the other family , penetrance was incomplete and only breast cancer occurred , diagnosed at ages 38-81 years . 
two novel nonsense mutations led to the loss of mutant brca1 transcript in families with _num2 and _num1 cases of early-onset breast cancer and ovarian cancer . 
a 665-nt segment of the brca1 3-utr and _num1 . 
_num1 kb of genomic sequence including the putative promoter region were invariant by single-strand conformation analysis in _num2 families without coding-sequence mutations . 
overall in our series , brca1 mutations have been detected in _num2 families _num2 with positive brca1 lod scores , _num1 with negative lod scores -lrb- reflecting multiple sporadic breast cancers -rrb- , and _num1 not tested for linkage . 
three other families have positive lod scores for linkage to brca2 , but _num2 families without detected brca1 mutations have negative lod scores for both brca1 and brca2 . 
transgenic mice carrying large human genomic sequences with expanded _ds repeat mimic closely the dm _ds repeat intergenerational and somatic instability . 
myotonic dystrophy -lrb- dm -rrb- is caused by a _ds repeat expansion in the 3utr of the dm protein kinase -lrb- dmpk -rrb- gene . 
a very high level of instability is observed through successive generations and the size of the repeat is generally correlated with the severity of the disease and with age at onset . 
furthermore , tissues from dm patients exhibit somatic mosaicism that increases with age . 
we generated transgenic mice carrying large human genomic sequences with _num2 , _num2 or > _num3 _ds , cloned from patients from the same affected dm family . 
using large human flanking sequences and a large amplification , we demonstrate that the intergenerational _ds repeat instability is reproduced in mice , with a strong bias towards expansions and with the same sex - and size-dependent characteristics as in humans . 
moreover , a high level of instability , increasing with age , can be observed in tissues and in sperm . 
although we did not observe dramatic expansions -lrb- or big jumps over several hundred _ds repeats -rrb- as in congenital forms of dm , our model carrying > _num3 _ds is the first to show instability so close to the human dm situation . 
our three models carrying different sizes of _ds repeat provide insight on the different factors modulating the _ds repeat instability . . 
linkage of gene for c2 deficiency and the major histocompatibility complex mhc in man . 
family study of a further case . 
close linkage between hl-a and c2 deficiency was first reported by fu and co-workers in _num4 . 
we present here a pedigree of a 31-year-old c2-deficient individual with clinical manifestations of hodgkins disease . 
the following markers were tested c2 levels , factor b polymorphism , blood groups , and enzyme typing . 
in addition to close linkage between hl-a and c2 deficiency , both parents were heterozygous for bf -lrb- hl-a linked , electrophoretic variation of b -rrb- . 
the two hl-a haplotypes closely linked to c2 deficiency are different _num1 , _an and _an , _an . 
they share , however , the sd2 antigen _an and the ld type 7a . . 
age of onset in huntington disease : sex specific influence of apolipoprotein e genotype and normal _ds repeat length . 
age of onset -lrb- ao -rrb- of huntington disease -lrb- hd -rrb- is known to be correlated with the length of an expanded _ds repeat in the hd gene . 
apolipoprotein e -lrb- apoe -rrb- genotype , in turn , is known to influence ao in alzheimer disease , rendering the apoe gene a likely candidate to affect ao in other neurological diseases too . 
we therefore determined apoe genotype and normal _ds repeat length in the hd gene for _num3 hd patients who were previously analysed with respect to _ds repeat length . 
genotyping for apoe was performed blind to clinical information . 
in addition to highlighting the effect of the normal repeat length upon ao in maternally inherited hd and in male patients , we show that the apoe epsilon2epsilon3 genotype is associated with significantly earlier ao in males than in females . 
such a sex difference in ao was not apparent for any of the other apoe genotypes . 
our findings suggest that subtle differences in the course of the neurodegeneration in hd may allow interacting genes to exert gender specific effects upon ao . 
genetic linkage map of six polymorphic dna markers around the gene for familial adenomatous polyposis on chromosome _num1 . 
a genetic linkage map of six polymorphic dna markers close to the gene -lrb- apc -rrb- for familial adenomatous polyposis -lrb- fap -rrb- on chromosome 5q is reported . 
one hundred fifty-five typed members of nine fap kindred provided more than _num2 meioses for linkage analysis . 
a number of crucial recombination events have been identified which are informative at three or more loci , allowing confident ordering of parts of the map . 
there was no evidence of genetic heterogeneity , with all families showing linkage of at least one chromosome _num1 marker to the gene . 
recombination data and two-point linkage analysis support a locus order of centromere-pi 227-c11p11-ecb27-l5 . 
62-apc-ef5 62-apc-ef5 . 
44-yn5 44-yn5 . 
48-telomer e , although ef5 . 
_num2 could lie in the interval l5 . 
62-apc or ecb27-l5 . 
_num2 . 
no recombinants were identified between apc and either ef5 . 
_num2 or yn5 . 
_num2 , but published deletion mapping in colorectal carcinomas and linkage analysis in fap suggest that yn5 . 
_num2 is 1-3 cm from apc . 
the present study suggests that yn5 . 
_num2 and l5 . 
_num2 delineate a small region of chromosome _num1 within which the ef5 . 
_num2 locus lies very close to the apc gene . 
these data not only allow use of flanking markers for presymptomatic diagnosis of fap but also provide a high-density map of the region for isolation of the apc gene itself and for further assessment of the role of chromosome _num1 deletions in the biology of sporadic colorectal cancer . 
detection of a novel arginine vasopressin defect by dideoxy fingerprinting . 
autosomal dominant neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus is a familial form of diabetes insipidus . 
this disorder is associated with variable levels of arginine vasopressin -lrb- avp -rrb- and diabetes insipidus of varying severity , which responds to exogenous avp . 
to determine the molecular basis of autosomal dominant neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus , the avp genes of members of a large kindred were analyzed . 
a new method , called dideoxy fingerprinting , was used to detect an avp mutation that was characterized by dna sequencing . 
the novel defect found changes the last codon of the avp signal peptide from alanine to threonine , which should perturb cleavage of mature avp from its precursor protein and inhibit its secretion or action . . 
association of the apc tumor suppressor protein with catenins . 
mutations of apc appear to initiate sporadic and inherited forms of human colorectal cancer . 
although these mutations have been well characterized , little is known about the function of the apc gene product . 
two cellular proteins that associate with apc were identified by nucleotide sequence analysis and peptide mapping as the e-cadherin-associated proteins alpha - and beta-catenin . 
a 27-residue fragment of apc containing a 15-amino acid repeat was sufficient for the interaction with the catenins . 
these results suggest an important link between tumor initiation and cell adhesion . . 
myotonic dystrophy is closely linked to the gene for muscle-type creatine kinase -lrb- ckmm -rrb- . 
we have studied genetic linkage between the gene for creatine kinase muscle type -lrb- ckmm -rrb- and the gene for myotonic dystrophy -lrb- dm -rrb- . 
in a panel of _num2 myotonic dystrophy families from canada and the netherlands , a maximum lod score -lrb- zmax -rrb- of _num2 . 
_num1 at a recombination frequency -lrb- theta -rrb- of _num1 . 
_num2 was obtained . 
tight linkage was also demonstrated for ckmm and the gene for apolipoprotein c2 -lrb- apoc2 -rrb- . 
this establishes ckmm as a useful marker for myotonic dystrophy discordant clinical outcome in myotonic dystrophy relatives showing -lrb- _ds -rrb- n > _num3 repeats . 
a myotonic dystrophy -lrb- dm -rrb- family is described in which discordant dm phenotypes were found in the children of two affected sisters with similar _ds expansion and clinical manifestations . 
in this family , congenital as well as early severe childhood and later childhood onset dm coexist . 
this observation strengthens the limited ability of lymphocytes _ds repeat number analysis in predicting genotype-phenotype correlations in dm patients . . 
constitutional von hippel-lindau -lrb- vhl -rrb- gene deletions detected in vhl families by fluorescence in situ hybridization . 
von hippel-lindau -lrb- vhl -rrb- disease is an autosomal dominantly inherited cancer syndrome predisposing to a variety of tumor types that include retinal hemangioblastomas , hemangioblastomas of the central nervous system , renal cell carcinomas , pancreatic cysts and tumors , pheochromocytomas , endolymphatic sac tumors , and epididymal cystadenomas -lsb- w. m. linehan et al. , j. am . 
med . 
assoc. , _num3 564-570 , _num4 ; e. a. maher and w. g. kaelin , jr. , medicine -lrb- baltimore -rrb- , _num2 381-391 , _num4 ; w. m. linehan and r. d. klausner , in b. vogelstein and k. kinzler -lrb- eds . -rrb- 
, the genetic basis of human cancer , pp. 455-473 , mcgraw-hill , _num4 -rsb- . 
the vhl gene was localized to chromosome 3p25-26 and cloned -lsb- f. latif et al. , science -lrb- washington dc -rrb- , _num3 1317-1320 , _num4 -rsb- . 
germline mutations in the vhl gene have been detected in the majority of vhl kindreds . 
the reported frequency of detection of vhl germline mutations has varied from _num2 to _num2 % -lrb- j. m. whaley et al. , am . 
j. hum . 
genet. , _num2 1092-1102 , _num4 ; clinical research group for japan , hum . 
mol . 
genet. , _num1 2233-2237 , _num4 ; f. chen et al. , hum . 
mutat. , _num1 66-75 , _num4 ; e. r. maher et al. , j. med . 
genet. , _num2 328-332 , _num4 ; b. zbar , cancer surv. , _num2 219-232 , _num4 -rrb- . 
recently a quantitative southern blotting procedure was found to improve this frequency -lrb- c. stolle et al. , hum . 
mutat. , _num2 417-423 , _num4 -rrb- . 
in the present study , we report the use of fluorescence in situ hybridization -lrb- fish -rrb- as a method to detect and characterize vhl germline deletions . 
we reexamined a group of vhl patients shown previously by single-strand conformation and sequencing analysis not to harbor point mutations in the vhl locus . 
we found constitutional deletions in _num2 of _num2 vhl patients in this group using cosmid and p1 probes that cover the vhl locus . 
we then tested six phenotypically normal offspring from four of these vhl families two were found to carry the deletion and the other four were deletion-free . 
in addition , germline mosaicism of the vhl gene was identified in one family . 
in sum , fish was found to be a simple and reliable method to detect vhl germline deletions and practically useful in cases where other methods of screening have failed to detect a vhl gene abnormality aberrant subcellular localization of brca1 in breast cancer . 
the brca1 gene product was identified as a 220-kilodalton nuclear phosphoprotein in normal cells , including breast ductal epithelial cells , and in _num2 of _num2 tumor cell lines derived from tissues other than breast and ovary . 
in _num2 of _num2 breast and ovarian cancer lines and _num2 of _num2 samples of cells obtained from malignant effusions , however , brca1 localized mainly in cytoplasm . 
absence of brca1 or aberrant subcellular location was also observed to a variable extent in histological sections of many breast cancer biopsies . 
these findings suggest that brca1 abnormalities may be involved in the pathogenesis of many breast cancers , sporadic as well as familial . . 
hla _an and the genetics of ankylosing spondylitis . 
one hundred and twenty-eight of _num3 patients with ankylosing spondylitis -lrb- as -rrb- were found to be hla _an positive . 
five patients had evidence of a sero-negative peripheral arthritis resembling peripheral psoriatic arthritis and _num1 of these were _an negative . 
one further _an negative patients had a sister with ankylosing spondylitis and ulcerative colitis and a mother with ulcerative colitis . 
there was evidence of a somewhat later age of onset of symptoms in _an negative patients . 
these findings are interpreted as suggesting some degree of clinical and genetic heterogeneity in ankylosing spondylitis with genes for psoriasis and inflammatory bowel disease being important in some individuals , particularly those who are _an negative . 
twenty-five first-degree relatives with ankylosing spondylitis were all _an positive . 
the only instance of disassociation of _an and spondylitis in a family was where the proband had ulcerative colitis as well as spondylitis . 
of _num2 _an positive fathers _num1 could be diagnosed as having definite ankylosing spondylitis -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- . 
these findings are thought to provide evidence against the concept that the gene for ankylosing spondylitis is not _an but a closely linked gene and favour the occurrence of an environmental event affecting approximately one-fifth of _an positive males to result in disease . . 
late infantile metachromatic leukodystrophy in israel . 
metachromatic leukodystrophy -lrb- mld -rrb- is a neurodegenerative disease in which the lysosomal enzyme , aryl sulfatase a -lrb- arsa -rrb- is deficient . 
the disease is inherited as an autosomal recessive trait and its frequency is estimated to be 1 / 40 , _num3 live births . 
the gene of arsa has been cloned and up to now eight mutations causing mld have been reported . 
another mutation , pd , leads to the deficiency of the enzyme in vitro -lrb- pseudodeficiency -rrb- without any known clinical effect . 
the pd mutation is frequent in all populations . 
in israel , late infantile mld was found to be very frequent in a small jewish isolate , the habbanite jews -lrb- 1 / 75 live births -rrb- . 
the molecular analysis demonstrated that in the habbanite population , the mutation occurred on an allele with the pd mutation . 
the loss of arsa activity is due to a point mutation c > t leading to a change of proline to leucine . 
mld is also frequent among moslem arabs in jerusalem . 
the mutation is a transition g > a destroying the splice donor site of exon _num1 . 
this mutation has been reported in patients with the late infantile mld from different ethnic groups . 
the christian arabs in israel also have a high incidence of the disease -lrb- 1 / 10 , _num3 live births -rrb- ; the mutation in this population is still unknown . 
knowledge of the different mutations causing mld in these defined populations will allow a carrier screening program to be carried out and prevent the birth of additional affected children . . 
genomic rearrangements of the apc tumor suppressor gene in familial adenomatous polyposis . 
germline mutations of the adenomatous polyposis coli -lrb- apc -rrb- tumor suppressor gene result in the hereditary colorectal cancer syndrome familial adenomatous polyposis -lrb- fap -rrb- . 
almost all apc mutations that have been identified are single-nucleotide alterations , small insertions , or small deletions that would truncate the protein product of the gene . 
no well-characterized intragenic rearrangement of apc has been described , and the prevalence of this type of mutation in fap patients is not clear . 
we screened _num2 potential fap families and identified _num2 different germline apc mutations in _num2 families . 
four of these mutations were genomic rearrangements resulting from homologous and nonhomologous recombinations mediated by alu elements . 
two of these four rearrangements were complex , involving deletion and insertion of nucleotides . 
of these four rearrangements , one resulted in the deletion of exons _num2 and _num2 and two others resulted in either complete or partial deletion of exon _num2 . 
the fourth rearrangement grossly altered the sequence within intron _num2 . 
although this rearrangement did not affect any coding sequence of apc at the genomic dna level , it caused inappropriate splicing of exon _num2 . 
these rearrangements were initially revealed by analyzing cdnas and could not have been identified by using mutation detection methods that screened each exon individually . 
the identification of a rearrangement that did not alter any coding exons yet affected the splicing further underscores the importance of using cdna for mutation analysis . 
the identification of four genomic rearrangements among _num2 mutations suggests that genomic rearrangements are frequent germline apc mutations . . 
familial male breast cancer is not linked to the brca1 locus on chromosome 17q . 
breast cancer in men is about a hundredfold less common than in women and this has hindered research into its genetic basis . 
we have examined _num2 families with at least one case of male breast cancer for linkage to the hereditary breast and ovarian cancer locus , brca1 , on chromosome 17q . 
we found strong evidence against linkage to brca1 -lrb- lod score-16 . 
_num2 -rrb- and the best estimate of the proportion of linked families was _num1 % -lrb- _num2 % ci 0-18 % -rrb- . 
our results indicate that there is a gene -lrb- s -rrb- other than brca1 which predisposes to early-onset breast cancer in women and which confers a higher risk of male breast cancer . 
identification of additional pedigrees that include cases of male breast cancer may therefore facilitate the mapping and isolation of this gene . 
evidence for inter-generational instability in the _ds repeat in the mjd1 gene and for conserved haplotypes at flanking markers amongst japanese and caucasian subjects with machado-joseph disease . 
the size of the -lrb- _ds -rrb- n repeat array in the _num1 ' end of the mjd1 gene and the haplotype at a series of microsatellite markers surrounding the mjd1 gene were examined in a large cohort of japanese and caucasian subjects affected with machado-joseph disease -lrb- mjd -rrb- . 
our data provide five novel observations . 
first , mjd is associated with expansion fo the array from the normal range of 14-37 repeats to 68-84 repeats in most japanese and caucasian subjects , but no subjects were observed with expansions intermediate in size between those of the normal and mjd affected groups . 
second , the expanded allele associated with mjd displays inter-generational instability , particularly in male meioses , and this instability was associated with the clinical phenomenon of anticipation . 
third , the size of the expanded allele is not only inversely correlated with the age-of-onset of mjd -lrb- r = -0.738 , p < _fn -rrb- , but is also correlated with the frequency of other clinical features -lsb- e.g. pseudoexophthalmos and pyramidal signs were more frequent in subjects with large repeats -lrb- p < _fn and p < _fn respectively -rrb- -rsb- . 
fourth , the disease phenotype is significantly more severe and had an early age of onset -lrb- _num2 years -rrb- in a subject homozygous for the expanded allele , which contrasts with huntington disease and suggests that the expanded allele in the mjd1 gene could exert its effect either by a dominant negative effect -lrb- putatively excluded in hd -rrb- or by a gain of function effect as proposed for hd . 
finally , japanese and caucasian subjects affected with mjd share haplotypes at several markers surrounding the mjd1 gene , which are uncommon in the normal japanese and caucasian population , and which suggests the existence either of common founders in these populations or of chromosomes susceptible to pathologic expansion of the _ds repeat in the mjd1 gene . 
familial prader-willi syndrome with apparently normal chromosomes . 
we report on _num1 sibs -lrb- 2f , 2m -rrb- with prader-willi syndrome -lrb- pws -rrb- . 
diagnosis was made clinically on the basis of history , behavior , and physical findings in _num1 of the sibs . 
the other child had died at age _num2 months with a history and clinical findings typical of first phase of pws . 
results of chromosome studies on the parents and surviving sibs were normal . 
the implications of this unusual familial occurrence for our understanding of pws are discussed . . 
age at diagnosis as an indicator of eligibility for brca1 dna testing in familial breast cancer . 
we searched for criteria that could indicate breast cancer families with a high prior probability of being caused by the breast / ovarian cancer susceptibility locus brca1 on chromosome _num2 . 
to this end , we performed a linkage study with _num2 consecutively collected dutch breast cancer families , including _num2 with at least one case of ovarian cancer . 
we used an intake cut-off of at least three first-degree relatives with breast and / or ovarian cancer at any age . 
significant evidence for linkage was found only among the _num2 breast cancer families with a mean age at diagnosis of less than _num2 years . 
an unexpectedly low proportion of the breast-ovarian cancer families were estimated to be linked to brca1 , which could be due to a founder effect in the dutch population . 
given the expected logistical problems in clinical management now that brca1 has been identified , we propose an interim period in which only families with a strong positive family history for early onset breast and / or ovarian cancer will be offered brca1 mutation testing . . 
some mexican glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase variants revisited . 
glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase -lrb- g6pd -rrb- deficiency appears to be fairly common in mexico . 
we have now examined the dna of three previously reported electrophoretically fast mexican g6pd variants , - g6pd distrito federal , g6pd tepic , and g6pd castilla . 
all three of these variants , believed on the basis of biochemical characterization and population origin to be unique , have the g -- a transition at nucleotide _num3 and the a -- g transition at nucleotide _num3 , mutations that we now recognize to be characteristic of g6pd a - . 
two other mexican males with g6pd deficiency were found to have the same mutation . 
all five have the -lrb- nlaiii / foki / pvuii / psti -rrb- haplotype characteristic of g6pd a - in africa . 
since the pvuii + genotype seems to be rare in europe , we conclude that all of these g6pd a - genes had their ancient origin in africa , although in many of the mexican patients with g6pd a -202 a / 376g the gene may have been imported more recently from spain , where this variant , formerly known as g6pd betica , is also prevalent . . 
inactivation of germline mutant apc alleles by attenuated somatic mutations : a molecular genetic mechanism for attenuated familial adenomatous polyposis . 
germline mutations of the adenomatous polyposis coli -lrb- apc -rrb- tumor suppressor gene result in familial adenomatous polyposis -lrb- fap -rrb- . 
patients with fap typically develop hundreds to thousands of benign colorectal tumors and early-onset colorectal cancer . 
a subset of germline apc mutations results in an attenuated fap -lrb- afap -rrb- phenotype , in which patients develop fewer tumors and develop them at an older age . 
although a genotype-phenotype correlation between the locations of apc germline mutations and the development of afap has been well documented , the mechanism for afap has not been well defined . 
we investigated the mechanism for afap in patients carrying a mutant apc allele -lrb- apc -lrb- as9 -rrb- -rrb- that has a mutation in the alternatively spliced region of exon _num1 . 
apc -lrb- as9 -rrb- was found to down-regulate beta-catenin-regulated transcription , the major tumor suppressor function of apc , as did the wild-type apc . 
mutation analysis showed that both apc -lrb- as9 -rrb- and the wild-type apc alleles were somatically mutated in most colorectal tumors from these patients . 
functional analysis showed that 4666insa , a common somatic mutation in apc -lrb- as9 -rrb- in these tumors , did not inactivate the wild-type apc . 
our results indicate that carriers of apc -lrb- as9 -rrb- develop fewer colorectal tumors than do typical patients with fap because somatic inactivation of both apc alleles is necessary for colorectal tumorigenesis . 
however , these patients develop colorectal tumors more frequently than does the general population because apc -lrb- as9 -rrb- is inactivated by mutations that do not inactivate the wild-type apc . . 
submicroscopic deletions at the wagr locus , revealed by nonradioactive in situ hybridization . 
fluorescence in situ hybridization -lrb- fish -rrb- with biotin-labeled probes mapping to 11p13 has been used for the molecular analysis of deletions of the wagr -lrb- wilms tumor , aniridia , genitourinary abnormalities , and mental retardation -rrb- locus . 
we have detected a submicroscopic 11p13 deletion in a child with inherited aniridia who subsequently presented with wilms tumor in a horseshoe kidney , only revealed at surgery . 
the mother , who has aniridia , was also found to carry a deletion including both the aniridia candidate gene -lrb- an2 -rrb- and the wilms tumor predisposition gene -lrb- wt1 -rrb- . 
this is therefore a rare case of an inherited wagr deletion . 
wilms tumor has so far only been associated with sporadic de novo aniridia cases . 
we have shown that a cosmid probe for a candidate aniridia gene , homologous to the mouse pax-6 gene , is deleted in cell lines from aniridia patients with previously characterized deletions at 11p13 , while another cosmid marker mapping between two aniridia associated translocation breakpoints -lrb- and hence a second candidate marker -rrb- is present on both chromosomes . 
these results support the pax-6 homologue as a strong candidate for the an2 gene . 
fish with cosmid probes has proved to be a fast and reliable technique for the molecular analysis of deletions . 
it can be used with limited amounts of material and has strong potential for clinical applications . . 
haplotype studies in wilson disease . 
in _num2 families with wilson disease , we have studied dna haplotypes of dinucleotide repeat polymorphisms -lrb- _ds repeats -rrb- in the 13q14 . 
_num1 region , to examine these markers for association with the wilson disease gene -lrb- wnd -rrb- . 
in addition to a marker -lrb- d13s133 -rrb- described elsewhere , we have developed three new highly polymorphic markers -lrb- d13s314 , d13s315 , and d13s316 -rrb- close to the wnd locus . 
we have examined the distribution of marker alleles at the loci studied and have found that d13s314 , d13s133 , and d13s316 each show nonrandom distribution on chromosomes carrying the wnd mutation . 
we have studied haplotypes of these three markers and have found that there are highly significant differences between wnd and normal haplotypes in northern european families . 
these findings have important implications for mutation detection and molecular diagnosis in families with wilson disease . 
growth hormone treatment increases co -lrb- _num1 -rrb- response , ventilation and central inspiratory drive in children with prader-willi syndrome . 
we studied whether the beneficial effects of growth hormone -lrb- gh -rrb- treatment on growth and body composition in pws are accompanied by an improvement in respiratory function . 
we measured resting ventilation , airway occlusion pressure -lrb- p -lrb- _num1 . 
_num1 -rrb- -rrb- and ventilatory response to co -lrb- _num1 -rrb- in nine children , aged 7-14 years , before and 6-9 months after the start of gh treatment . 
during gh treatment , resting ventilation increased by _num2 % , p -lrb- _num1 . 
_num1 -rrb- by _num2 % and the response to co -lrb- _num1 -rrb- by _num2 % -lrb- p < _num1 . 
_num3 , < _num1 . 
_num2 and < _num1 . 
_num2 , respectively -rrb- . 
this observed increase in ventilatory output was not correlated to changes in body mass index . 
conclusion treatment of children with prader-willi syndrome -lrb- pws -rrb- seems to have a stimulatory effect on central respiratory structures . 
the observed increase in ventilation and inspiratory drive may contribute to the improved activity level reported by parents of pws children during growth hormone therapy somatic von hippel-lindau mutation in clear cell papillary cystadenoma of the epididymis . 
papillary cystadenoma of the epididymis is an uncommon benign lesion that may occur sporadically or as a manifestation of von hippel-lindau -lrb- vhl -rrb- disease . 
neither immunohistochemical studies nor molecular genetic analyses of the vhl gene have been reported previously for this lesion . 
the authors describe two cases of clear cell papillary cystadenoma of the epididymis , both of which were initially confused with metastatic renal cell carcinoma . 
both lesions showed positive immunohistochemical staining for low and intermediate molecular weight keratins -lrb- cam _num1 . 
_num1 and ae1 / ae3 -rrb- , ema , vimentin , alpha 1-antitrypsin , and alpha 1-antichymotrypsin . 
each was negative for cea . 
because clear cell papillary cystadenoma is similar to renal cell carcinoma histologically , and because both occur as components of the von hippel-lindau disease complex , the authors analyzed both cases for the presence of mutations in the vhl gene . 
a somatic vhl gene mutation was detected in one of the two tumors by polymerase chain reaction followed by single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis . 
direct sequencing revealed a cytosine to thymine transition at nucleotide _num3 , resulting in the replacement of an arginine with a stop codon after the sixth amino acid of exon _num1 . 
as the vhl gene is believed to function as a tumor suppressor gene , vhl gene mutations may play a role in the initiation of tumorigenesis in sporadic cystadenomas of the epididymis . 
an evaluation of genetic heterogeneity in _num3 breast-ovarian cancer families . 
breast cancer linkage consortium . 
the breast-ovary cancer-family syndrome is a dominant predisposition to cancer of the breast and ovaries which has been mapped to chromosome region 17q12-q21 . 
the majority , but not all , of breast-ovary cancer families show linkage to this susceptibility locus , designated brca1 . 
we report here the results of a linkage analysis of _num3 families with both breast and ovarian cancer . 
these families contain either a total of three or more cases of early-onset -lrb- before age _num2 years -rrb- breast cancer or ovarian cancer . 
all families contained at least one case of ovarian cancer . 
overall , an estimated _num2 % of the _num3 families are linked to the brca1 locus . 
none of the _num2 families with cases of male breast cancer appear to be linked , but it is estimated that _num2 % -lrb- _num2 % confidence interval _num2 % -100 % -rrb- of families with no male breast cancer and with two or more ovarian cancers are linked to brca1 . 
these data suggest that the breast-ovarian cancer-family syndrome is genetically heterogeneous . 
however , the large majority of families with early-onset breast cancer and with two or more cases of ovarian cancer are likely to be due to brca1 mutations . . 
genetic analysis in families with van der woude syndrome . 
we have brought together information on _num3 affected individuals in _num3 families -lrb- including three new pedigrees -rrb- reported in the _num3 year period since _num4 when demarquay first described a family with what was later called van der woude syndrome -lrb- vws -rrb- . 
both types of oral cleft , cleft palate -lrb- cp -rrb- and cleft lip with or without cp -lrb- clp -rrb- , segregate in these families together with lower lip pits or fistulae in an autosomal dominant mode with high penetrance estimated to be k = . 
_num2 and . 
_num2 by different methods . 
cleft types -lrb- clp and cp -rrb- occur in vws in the same proportions as in the general non-vws population , ie , about twice as many cleft-bearing individuals have clp as have cp . 
on the other hand , we do not find the usually observed excess of females with cp and excess of males with clp ; in vws the sex ratios are more nearly equal . 
lip pits also are equally distributed between the sexes . 
affected males and females are equally likely to transmit vws . 
however , there is an excess of less severely affected individuals among transmitters and a deficiency of more severely affected , brought about by a proband bias and differential fecundity . 
the expression of vws is significantly modified by the genetic background more extreme phenotypes in parents tend to produce more extreme expression in their children . 
for a vws gene carrier the relative risk of transmitting a cleft is _num2 . 
_num2 % ; that of transmitting lower lip pits is _num2 . 
_num2 % . 
three pedigrees of lip pits in the literature show no clefts among a significant number of affected individuals . 
control of gene expression in vws in the three target tissues appears to be independent and separately designated . 
mutation rate of the vws gene is calculated to be _num1 . 
_num1 x _num2 -lrb- -5 -rrb- molecular and phenotypic analysis of patients with deletions within the deletion-rich region of the duchenne muscular dystrophy -lrb- dmd -rrb- gene . 
eighty unrelated individuals with duchenne muscular dystrophy -lrb- dmd -rrb- or becker muscular dystrophy -lrb- bmd -rrb- were found to have deletions in the major deletion-rich region of the dmd locus . 
this region includes the last five exons detected by cdna5b-7 , all exons detected by cdna8 , and the first two exons detected by cdna9 . 
these _num2 individuals account for approximately _num2 % of _num3 deletions of the gene , detected among _num3 patients analyzed with the entire dystrophin cdna . 
endpoints for many of these deletions were further characterized using two genomic probes , _an -lrb- dxs269 ; wapenaar et al. -rrb- and gmgx11 -lrb- dxs239 ; present paper -rrb- . 
clinical findings are presented for all _num2 patients allowing a correlation of phenotypic severity with the genotype . 
thirty-eight independent patients were old enough to be classified as dmd , bmd , or intermediate phenotype and had deletions of exons with sequenced intron / exon boundaries . 
of these , eight bmd patients and one intermediate patient had gene deletions predicted to leave the reading frame intact , while _num2 dmd patients , _num1 intermediate patients , and _num1 bmd patient had gene deletions predicted to disrupt the reading frame . 
thus , with two exceptions , frameshift deletions of the gene resulted in more severe phenotype than did in-frame deletions . 
this is in agreement with recent findings by baumbach et al. and koenig et al. but is in contrast to findings , by malhotra et al. at the _num1 ' end of the gene . 
proteolipoprotein gene analysis in _num2 patients with sporadic pelizaeus-merzbacher disease : duplications , the major cause of the disease , originate more frequently in male germ cells , but point mutations do not . 
the clinical european network on brain dysmyelinating disease . 
pelizaeus-merzbacher disease -lrb- pmd -rrb- is an x-linked developmental defect of myelination affecting the central nervous system and segregating with the proteolipoprotein -lrb- plp -rrb- locus . 
investigating _num2 strictly selected sporadic cases of pmd , we found plp mutations in _num2 % ; complete plp-gene duplications were the most frequent abnormality -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- , whereas point mutations in coding or splice-site regions of the gene were involved less frequently -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- . 
we analyzed the maternal status of _num2 cases to determine the origin of both types of plp mutation , since this is relevant to genetic counseling . 
in the _num2 point mutations , _num2 % of mothers were heterozygous for the mutation , a value identical to the two-thirds of carrier mothers that would be expected if there were an equal mutation rate in male and female germ cells . 
in sharp contrast , among the _num2 duplicated cases , _num2 % of mothers were carriers , a value significantly -lrb- chi2 = _num1 . 
_num2 , p < . 
_num2 -rrb- in favor of a male bias , with an estimation of the male / female mutation frequency -lrb- k -rrb- of _num1 . 
_num1 _num1 . 
moreover , we observed the occurrence of de novo mutations between parental and grandparental generations in _num2 three-generation families , which allowed a direct estimation of the k value -lrb- k = _num2 -rrb- . 
again , a significant male mutation imbalance was observed only for the duplications . 
haplotype analysis of the phenylalanine hydroxylase gene in turkish phenylketonuria families . 
we have estimated the haplotype distribution of mutant and normal phenylalanine hydroxylase -lrb- pah -rrb- alleles for _num2 turkish phenylketonuria -lrb- pku -rrb- families _num2 normal and _num2 mutated pah alleles could be identified . 
of the latter , the most prevalent were associated with haplotype _num1 -lrb- _num2 . 
_num1 % -rrb- , _num1 -lrb- _num2 . 
_num1 % -rrb- and _num2 -lrb- _num2 . 
_num1 % -rrb- , while the normal alleles were preferentially associated with haplotype _num1 -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- . 
of the _num2 different haplotypes observed , _num1 have not been described previously . 
the haplotype distribution differed significantly from that of the northern european population . 
two of the eight polymorphic sites were in association with pku . 
no deletions of exon sequences were found in the families analysed . 
cloning of human very-long-chain acyl-coenzyme a dehydrogenase and molecular characterization of its deficiency in two patients . 
two overlapping cdna clones -lrb- _num1 , _num3 bp and _num3 bp , respectively -rrb- encoding the precursor of human mitochondrial very-long-chain acyl-coenzyme a dehydrogenase -lrb- vlcad -rrb- were cloned and sequenced . 
the cdna inserts of these clones together encompass a region of _num1 , _num3 bases , encoding the entire protein of _num3 amino acids , including a 40-amino acid leader peptide and a 615-amino acid mature polypeptide . 
pcr-amplified vlcad cdnas were sequenced in cultured fibroblasts from two vlcad-deficient patients . 
in both patients , a 105-bp deletion encompassing bases 1078-1182 in vlcad cdna was identified . 
the deletion seems to occur due to exon skipping during processing of vlcad pre-mrna . 
this is the first demonstration of a mutation causing vlcad deficiency . 
quantitative cdna expression of normal human vlcad was performed in the patients fibroblasts , using vaccinia viral system , which demonstrated that the deficiency of the normal vlcad protein causes impaired long-chain fatty acid beta-oxidation activity in the patients fibroblasts . 
in patient fibroblasts , raising vlcad activity to approximately _num2 % of normal control fibroblast activity raised palmitic acid beta-oxidation flux to the level found in control fibroblasts , which may offer important information for the rational design of future somatic gene therapy for vlcad deficiency . . 
mutations in the rb1 gene and their effects on transcription . 
inactivation of both alleles of the rb1 gene during normal retinal development initiates the formation of a retinoblastoma -lrb- rb -rrb- tumor . 
to identify the mutations which inactivate rb1 , _num2 rb tumors isolated from _num2 patients were analyzed with the polymerase chain reaction or an rnase protection assay or both . 
mutations were identified in _num2 of _num2 rb tumors ; in _num1 tumors , the precise errors in nucleotide sequence were characterized . 
each of four germ line mutations involved a small deletion or duplication , while three somatic mutations were point mutations leading to splice alterations and loss of an exon from the mature rb1 mrna . 
we were unable to detect expression of the mutant allele in lymphoblasts of three bilaterally affected patients , although the mutation was present in the genomic dna and transcripts containing the mutations were obvious in the rb tumors in the absence of a normal rb1 allele . 
the variations in the level of expression of mutant transcripts suggest deregulation of rb1 transcription in the absence of a functional rb1 gene product . . 
resolution of the two loci for autosomal dominant aniridia , an1 and an2 , to a single locus on chromosome 11p13 . 
two distinct loci have been proposed for aniridia ; an1 for autosomal dominant aniridia on chromosome 2p and an2 for the aniridia in the wagr contiguous gene syndrome on chromosome 11p13 . 
in this report , the kindred segregating for autosomal dominant aniridia , which suggested linkage to acid phosphatase-1 -lrb- acp1 -rrb- and led to the assignment of the an1 locus on chromosome 2p , has been updated and expanded . 
linkage analysis between the aniridia phenotype and acp1 does not support the original linkage results , excluding linkage up to theta = _num1 . 
_num2 with z = -2 . 
tests for linkage to other chromosome 2p markers . 
apob , d2s71 , d2s5 , and d2s1 , also excluded linkage to aniridia . 
markers that have been isolated from the chromosome 11p13 region were then analyzed in this aniridia family . 
two rflps at the d11s323 locus give significant evidence for linkage . 
the pvuii polymorphism detected by probe p5s1 . 
_num1 detects no recombinants , with a maximum lod score of z = _num1 . 
_num2 at theta = _num1 . 
_num2 _num2 . 
the haeiii polymorphism detected by the probe p5be1 . 
_num1 gives a maximum lod score of z = _num1 . 
_num2 at theta = _num1 . 
_num2 _num2 . 
locus d11s325 gives a lod score of z = _num1 . 
_num2 at theta = _num1 . 
_num2 _num2 . 
these data suggest that a locus for aniridia -lrb- an1 -rrb- on chromosome 2p has been misassigned and that this autosomal dominant aniridia family is segregating for an aniridia mutation linked to markers in the 11p13 region . 
_ds to _ds transition at a splice donor site causes skipping of the preceding exon in phenylketonuria . 
classical phenylketonuria -lrb- pku -rrb- is an autosomal recessive human genetic disorder caused by a deficiency of hepatic phenylalanine hydroxylase -lrb- pah -rrb- . 
we isolated several mutant pah cdna clones from a pku carrier individual and showed that they contained an internal _num3 base pair deletion , corresponding precisely to exon _num2 of the human chromosomal pah gene . 
the deletion causes the synthesis of a truncated protein lacking the c-terminal _num2 amino acids . 
gene transfer and expression studies using the mutant pah cdna indicated that the deletion abolishes pah activity in the cell as a result of protein instability . 
to determine the molecular basis of the deletion , the mutant chromosomal pah gene was isolated from this individual and shown to contain a _ds -- greater than _ds substitution at the _num1 splice donor site of intron _num2 . 
thus , the consequence of the splice donor site mutation in the human liver is the skipping of the preceding exon during rna splicing . . 
clinical and molecular genetic analysis of _num2 wolfram syndrome kindreds demonstrating a wide spectrum of mutations in wfs1 . 
wolfram syndrome is an autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by juvenile-onset diabetes mellitus and progressive optic atrophy . 
mtdna deletions have been described , and a gene -lrb- wfs1 -rrb- recently has been identified , on chromosome 4p16 , encoding a predicted _num3 amino acid transmembrane protein . 
direct dna sequencing was done to screen the entire coding region of the wfs1 gene in _num2 patients from _num2 british kindreds with wolfram syndrome . 
dna was also screened for structural rearrangements -lrb- deletions and duplications -rrb- and point mutations in mtdna . 
no pathogenic mtdna mutations were found in our cohort . 
we identified _num2 mutations in the wfs1 gene _num1 nonsense mutations , _num1 missense mutations , _num1 in-frame deletions , _num1 in-frame insertion , and _num1 frameshift mutations . 
of these , _num2 were novel mutations , and most occurred in exon _num1 . 
the majority of patients were compound heterozygotes for two mutations , and there was no common founder mutation . 
the data were also analyzed for genotype-phenotype relationships . 
although some interesting cases were noted , consideration of the small sample size and frequency of each mutation indicated no clear-cut correlations between any of the observed mutations and disease severity . 
there were no obvious mutation hot spots or clusters . 
hence , molecular screening for wolfram syndrome in affected families and for wolfram syndrome carrier status in subjects with psychiatric disorders or diabetes mellitus will require complete analysis of exon _num1 and upstream exons . . 
maternal uniparental disomy for chromosome _num2 in a boy with a normal karyotype . 
we report on a boy with a maternal uniparental disomy for chromosome _num2 -lrb- upd -lrb- _num2 -rrb- -rrb- . 
at _num1 years of age he was referred to us by the paediatrician because of symptoms of prader-willi syndrome -lrb- pws -rrb- . 
he showed short stature , obesity , mild developmental delay , cryptorchidism , and some mild dysmorphic features . 
the history further indicated intrauterine growth retardation at the end of the pregnancy . 
his mother was _num2 years of age at the time of his birth . 
after birth he showed hypotonia with poor sucking , for which gavage feeding was needed . 
motor development was delayed . 
after _num1 year he became obese despite a normal appetite . 
recurrent middle ear infections , a high pain threshold , and a great skill with jigsaw puzzles were reported . 
there were no behavioural problems or sleep disturbance . 
chromosomal analysis was normal -lrb- _num2 , xy -rrb- . 
dna analysis for prader-willi syndrome showed no abnormalities . 
two years later he was re-examined because we thought his features fitted the pws like phenotype associated with maternal upd -lrb- _num2 -rrb- . 
at that time precocious puberty was evident . 
dna analysis showed maternal heterodisomy for chromosome _num2 . 
in all the previously described _num2 cases with maternal upd -lrb- _num2 -rrb- , a robertsonian translocation involving chromosome _num2 was detected cytogenetically before dna analysis . 
this is the first report of diagnosis of maternal upd -lrb- _num2 -rrb- based on clinical features . 
this finding underlines the importance of dna analysis for maternal upd -lrb- _num2 -rrb- in patients with a similar pws like phenotype even without previous identification of a robertsonian translocation involving chromosome _num2 . . 
detection of eight brca1 mutations in _num2 breast / ovarian cancer families , including _num1 family with male breast cancer . 
genetic epidemiological evidence suggests that mutations in brca1 may be responsible for approximately one half of early onset familial breast cancer and the majority of familial breast / ovarian cancer . 
the recent cloning of brca1 allows for the direct detection of mutations , but the feasibility of presymptomatic screening for cancer susceptibility is unknown . 
we analyzed genomic dna from one affected individual from each of _num2 families with at least three cases of ovarian or breast cancer , using sscp assays . 
variant sscp bands were subcloned and sequenced . 
allele-specific oligonucleotide hybridization was used to verify sequence changes and to screen dna from control individuals . 
six frameshift and two missense mutations were detected in _num2 different families . 
a frameshift mutation was detected in a male proband affected with both breast and prostate cancer . 
a 40-bp deletion was detected in a patient who developed intra-abdominal carcinomatosis _num1 year after prophylactic oophorectomy . 
mutations were detected throughout the gene , and only one was detected in more than a single family . 
these results provide further evidence that inherited breast and ovarian cancer can occur as a consequence of a wide array of brca1 mutations . 
these results suggests that development of a screening test for brca1 mutations will be technically challenging . 
the finding of a mutation in a family with male breast cancer , not previously thought to be related to brca1 , also illustrates the potential difficulties of genetic counseling for individuals known to carry mutations . . 
color vision defects in adrenomyeloneuropathy . 
the relationship between abnormal color vision and adrenomyeloneuropathy -lrb- amn -rrb- was investigated in _num2 amn patients and _num2 age-matched controls by using the farnsworth-munsell _num3 hue test . 
twelve -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- of _num2 patients showed test scores significantly above normal . 
the axes of bipolarity determined by the testing differed widely between the patients with abnormal scores , compatible with the notion that different alterations in visual pigment genes occur in different amn kindreds . 
these observations confirm our earlier impression that the frequency of abnormal color vision is increased in these kindreds , and it supports our contentions that -lrb- _num1 -rrb- amn -lrb- and its companion , adrenoleukodystrophy -rrb- are very closely linked to the visual pigment loci at xq28 and -lrb- _num1 -rrb- this proximity might provide the opportunity to observe contiguous gene defects . . 
patterns of exon deletions in duchenne and becker muscular dystrophy . 
a panel of patients with duchenne and becker muscular dystrophy -lrb- dmd and bmd -rrb- has been screened with the cdna probes cf56a and cf23a , which detect exons in the central part of the dmd gene . 
one or more exons were deleted in _num2 % of patients . 
the deletions were mapped and prove to be heterogeneous in size and extent , particularly in dmd . 
deletions specific to dmd and to bmd are described . 
half of all bmd patients have a deletion of one particular small group of exons ; smaller deletions within this same group produce the more severe dmd . . 
the lec rat has a deletion in the copper transporting atpase gene homologous to the wilson disease gene . 
the long-evans cinnamon -lrb- lec -rrb- rat shows similarity to wilson disease in many clinical and biochemical features . 
we have cloned cdnas for the rat gene -lrb- atp7b -rrb- homologous to the human wilson disease gene -lrb- atp7b -rrb- and have used them to identify a partial deletion in the atp7b gene in the lec rat . 
the deletion removes at least _num3 bp of the coding region at the _num1 end , includes the crucial atp binding domain and extends downstream of the gene . 
our results provide convincing evidence for defining the lec rat as an animal model for wilson disease . 
this model will be important for studying liver pathophysiology , for developing therapy for wilson disease and for studying the pathway of copper transport and its possible interaction with other heavy metals . . 
detection of a new submicroscopic norrie disease deletion interval with a novel dna probe isolated by differential alu pcr fingerprint cloning . 
differential alu pcr fingerprint cloning was used to isolate a dna probe from the xp11 . 
_num1 -- > _an . 
_num2 region of the human x chromosome . 
this novel sequence , cpxr318 -lrb- dxs742 -rrb- , detects a new submicroscopic deletion interval at the norrie disease locus -lrb- ndp -rrb- . 
combining our data with the consensus genetic map of the proximal short arm of the x chromosome , we propose the physical order xcen-dxs14-dxs255 - -lrb- dxs426 , timp -rrb- - -lrb- dxs742 - -lrb- -lsb- maob-maoa-dxs7 -rsb- , ndp -rrb- - dxs77-dxs228 -rrb- - dxs209-dxs148-dxs196 - + + + xpter . 
the cpxr318 probe and a subclone from a cosmid corresponding to the dxs7 locus were converted into sequence-tagged sites . 
finally , dxs742 , dsx7 , dxs77 , and maoa were integrated into a physical map spanning the norrie disease locus genetic analysis of a japanese family with normotriglyceridemic abetalipoproteinemia indicates a lack of linkage to the apolipoprotein b gene . 
normotriglyceridemic abetalipoproteinemia is a rare familial disorder characterized by an isolated deficiency of apob-100 . 
we have previously reported a patient with this disease , who had normal apob-48 but no apob-100 . 
to elucidate the genetic abnormalities in this family , we studied the linkage of apob gene using three genetic markers . 
the proband and her affected brother showed completely different apob gene alleles , suggesting that the apob gene itself is not related to this disorder in this family . 
by contrast , an american case had a point substitution in the apob gene generating an in-frame stop codon . 
these results indicate that this disorder can be caused by defect -lrb- s -rrb- of either an apob gene or other genes . . 
founder mutations in the brca1 gene in polish families with breast-ovarian cancer . 
we have undertaken a hospital-based study , to identify possible brca1 and brca2 founder mutations in the polish population . 
the study group consisted of _num2 polish families with cancer who have at least three related females affected with breast or ovarian cancer and who had cancer diagnosed , in at least one of the three affected females , at age < _num2 years . 
a total of _num2 families had both breast and ovarian cancers , _num1 families had ovarian cancers only , and _num2 families had breast cancers only . 
genomic dna was prepared from the peripheral blood leukocytes of at least one affected woman from each family . 
the entire coding region of brca1 and brca2 was screened for the presence of germline mutations , by use of sscp followed by direct sequencing of observed variants . 
mutations were found in _num2 -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- of the _num2 families studied . 
all but one of the mutations were detected within the brca1 gene . 
brca1 abnormalities were identified in all four families with ovarian cancer only , in _num2 % of _num2 families with both breast and ovarian cancer , and in _num2 % of _num2 families with breast cancer only . 
the single family with a brca2 mutation had the breast-ovarian cancer syndrome . 
seven distinct mutations were identified ; five of these occurred in two or more families . 
in total , recurrent mutations were found in _num2 -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- of the _num2 families with detected mutations . 
three brca1 abnormalities - 5382insc , c61g , and 4153dela - accounted for _num2 % , _num2 % , and _num2 % of the identified mutations , respectively . . 
new founder haplotypes at the myotonic dystrophy locus in southern africa . 
the association between normal alleles at the _ds repeat and two nearby polymorphisms in the myotonin protein kinase gene , the alu insertion / deletion polymorphism and the myotonic dystrophy kinase -lrb- dmk -rrb- -lrb- g / t -rrb- intron 9 / hinfi polymorphism , has been analyzed in south african negroids , a population in which myotonic dystrophy -lrb- dm -rrb- has not been described . 
south african negroids have a _ds allelic distribution that is significantly different from that in caucasoids and japanese the _ds repeat lengths of > or = _num2 are very rare . 
the striking linkage disequilibrium between specific alleles at the alu polymorphism -lrb- alu -lrb- ins -rrb- and alu -lrb- del -rrb- -rrb- , the hinfi polymorphism -lrb- hinfi-1 and hinfi-2 -rrb- , and the _ds repeat polymorphism seen in caucasoid -lrb- europeans and canadians -rrb- populations was also found in the south african negroid population . 
numerous haplotypes , not previously described in europeans , were , however , found . 
it thus seems likely that only a small number of these '' african '' chromosomes were present in the progenitors of all non-african peoples . 
these data provide support for the '' out of africa '' model for the origin of modern humans and suggest that the rare ancestral dm mutation event may have occurred after the migration from africa , hence the absence of dm in sub-saharan negroid peoples . . 
marked phenotypic heterogeneity associated with expansion of a _ds repeat sequence at the spinocerebellar ataxia _num1 / machado-joseph disease locus . 
the spinocerebellar ataxia _num1 locus -lrb- sca3 -rrb- for type i autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia -lrb- adca type i -rrb- , a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of neurodegenerative disorders , has been mapped to chromosome 14q32 . 
_num1 _num1 . 
adca type i patients from families segregating sca3 share clinical features in common with those with machado-joseph disease -lrb- mjd -rrb- , the gene of which maps to the same region . 
we show here that the disease gene segregating in each of three french adca type i kindreds and in a french family with neuropathological findings suggesting the ataxochoreic form of dentatorubropallidoluysian atrophy carries an expanded _ds repeat sequence located at the same locus as that for mjd . 
analysis of the mutation in these families shows a strong negative correlation between size of the expanded _ds repeat and age at onset of clinical disease . 
instability of the expanded triplet repeat was not found to be affected by sex of the parent transmitting the mutation . 
evidence was found for somatic and gonadal mosaicism for alleles carrying expanded trinucleotide repeats . 
the red-green visual pigment gene region in adrenoleukodystrophy . 
although recent data established that a specific very-long-chain fatty acyl-coa synthetase is defective in x-linked adrenoleukodystrophy -lrb- ald -rrb- , the ald gene is still unidentified . 
the ald locus has been mapped to xq28 , like the red and green color pigment genes . 
abnormal color vision has been observed in _num2 of _num2 patients with adrenomyeloneuropathy -lrb- amn -rrb- , a milder form of ald . 
furthermore , rearrangements of the color vision gene cluster were found in four of eight ald kindreds . 
this led us to propose that a single dna rearrangement could underlie both ald and abnormal color vision in these patients . 
study of _num2 french ald patients failed to reveal a higher than expected frequency of green / red visual pigment rearrangements _num1 to the red / green color vision gene complex . 
the previous report of such rearrangements was based on small numbers and lack of knowledge that the frequency of '' abnormal '' color vision arrays on molecular analysis was twice as high as expected on the basis of the frequency of phenotypic color vision defects . 
the red / green color pigment -lrb- r / gcp -rrb- region was studied by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis in _num2 of these patients , and we did not find any fragment size difference between the patients and normal individuals who have the same number of pigment genes . 
the r / gcp region was also analyzed in _num2 french and seven north american ald patients by using six genomic dna probes , isolated from a cosmid walk , that flank the color vision genes . 
no deletions were found with probes that lie _num1 of the green pigment genes . 
one of the eight previously reported ald individuals has a long deletion _num1 of the red pigment gene , a deletion causing blue cone monochromacy . 
this finding and the previous findings of a _num2 % frequency of phenotypic color vision defects in patients with amn may suggest that the ald / amn gene lies _num1 to the red pigment gene and that the frequent phenotypic color vision anomalies owe their origin to deleted dna that includes regulatory genes for color vision . 
it is possible , however , that phenotypic color vision anomalies in amn may be phenocopies secondary to retinal or neural involvement by the disease . 
the single case of blue cone monochromacy may therefore be a fortuitous coincidence of two diseases . . 
haim-munk syndrome and papillon-lefevre syndrome are allelic mutations in cathepsin c. of the many palmoplantar keratoderma -lrb- ppk -rrb- conditions , only papillon-lefevre syndrome -lrb- pls -rrb- and haim-munk syndrome -lrb- hms -rrb- are associated with premature periodontal destruction . 
although both pls and hms share the cardinal features of ppk and severe periodontitis , a number of additional findings are reported in hms including arachnodactyly , acro-osteolysis , atrophic changes of the nails , and a radiographic deformity of the fingers . 
while pls cases have been identified throughout the world , hms has only been described among descendants of a religious isolate originally from cochin , india . 
parental consanguinity is a characteristic of many cases of both conditions . 
although autosomal recessive transmission of pls is evident , a more '' complex '' autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance with phenotypic influences from a closely linked modifying locus has been hypothesised for hms . 
recently , mutations of the cathepsin c gene have been identified as the underlying genetic defect in pls . 
to determine if a cathepsin c mutation is also responsible for hms , we sequenced the gene in affected and unaffected subjects from the cochin isolate in which both the pls and hms phenotypes appear . 
here we report identification of a mutation of cathepsin c -lrb- exon _num1 , 2127a -- > g -rrb- that changes a highly conserved amino acid in the cathepsin c peptide . 
this mutation segregates with hms in four nuclear families . 
additionally , the existence of a shared common haplotype for genetic loci flanking the cathepsin c gene suggests that affected subjects descended from the cochin isolate are homozygous for a mutation inherited '' identical by descent '' from a common ancestor . 
this finding supports simple autosomal recessive inheritance for hms in these families . 
we also report a mutation of the same exon _num1 ctsc codon -lrb- 2126c -- > t -rrb- in a turkish family with classical pls . 
these findings provide evidence that pls and hms are allelic variants of cathepsin c gene mutations . . 
x inactivation and somatic cell selection rescue female mice carrying a piga-null mutation . 
a somatic mutation in the x linked piga gene is responsible for the deficiency of glycosyl phosphatidylinositol -lrb- gpi -rrb- - anchored proteins on blood cells from patients with paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria . 
no inherited form of gpi-anchor deficiency has been described . 
because conventional piga gene knockout is associated with high embryonic lethality in chimeric mice , we used the cre / loxp system . 
we generated mice in which two loxp sites flank part of piga exon _num1 . 
after crossbreeding with female mice of the eiia-cre strain , the floxed allele undergoes cre-mediated recombination with high efficiency during early embryonic development . 
because of x chromosome inactivation , female offspring are mosaic for cells that express or lack gpi-linked proteins . 
analysis of mosaic mice showed that in heart , lung , kidney , brain , and liver , mainly wild-type piga is active , suggesting that these tissues require gpi-linked proteins . 
the salient exceptions were spleen , thymus , and red blood cells , which had almost equal numbers of cells expressing the wild-type or the recombined allele , implying that gpi-linked proteins are not essential for the derivation of these tissues . 
piga -lrb- - -rrb- cells had no growth advantage , suggesting that other factors are needed for their clonal dominance in patients with paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria . . 
the norrie disease gene maps to a _num3 kb region on chromosome xp11 .3 . 
norrie disease is a human x-linked recessive disorder of unknown etiology characterized by congenital blindness , sensory neural deafness and mental retardation . 
this disease gene was previously linked to the dxs7 -lrb- l1 . 
_num2 -rrb- locus and the mao genes in band xp11 . 
_num1 _num1 . 
we report here fine physical mapping of the obligate region containing the norrie disease gene -lrb- ndp -rrb- defined by a recombination and by the smallest submicroscopic chromosomal deletion associated with norrie disease identified to date . 
analysis , using in addition two overlapping yac clones from this region , allowed orientation of the maoa and maob genes in a 5-3-3-5 configuration . 
a recombination event between a -lrb- _ds -rrb- n polymorphism in intron _num1 of the maob gene and the ndp locus , in a family previously reported to have a recombination between dxs7 and ndp , delineates a flanking marker telomeric to this disease gene . 
an anonymous dna probe , dc12 , present in one of the yacs and in a patient with a submicroscopic deletion which includes maoa and maob but not l1 . 
_num2 , serves as a flanking marker centromeric to the disease gene . 
an alu-pcr fragment from the right arm of the mao yac -lrb- ymao . 
alur -rrb- is not deleted in this patient and also delineates the centromeric extent of the obligate disease region . 
the apparent order of these loci is telomere . 
dxs7-maoa-maob-ndp-dc12-ymao dxs7-maoa-maob-ndp-dc12-ymao . 
alur . 
centromere . 
together these data define the obligate region containing the ndp gene to a chromosomal segment less than _num3 kb . 
molecular genetics of the glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase -lrb- g6pd -rrb- mediterranean variant and description of a new g6pd mutant , g6pd andalus1361a . 
glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase -lrb- g6pd ; e. c. -rrb- deficiency is the most common human enzymopathy ; more than _num3 different biochemical variants of the enzyme have been described . 
in many parts of the world the mediterranean type of g6pd deficiency is prevalent . 
however , g6pd mediterranean has come to be regarded as a generic term applied to similar g6pd mutations thought , however , to represent a somewhat heterogeneous group . 
a c -- t mutation at nucleotide _num3 of g6pd mediterranean has been identified by vulliamy et al. , and the same mutation has been found by de vita et al. in g6pd mediterranean , g6pd sassari , and g6pd cagliari . 
the latter subjects had an additional mutation , at nucleotide _num4 , that did not produce a coding change . 
we have examined genomic dna of five patients -- four of spanish origin and one of jewish origin -- having enzymatically documented g6pd mediterranean . 
all had both the mutation at nucleotide _num3 and that at nucleotide _num4 . 
a sixth sample , resembling g6pd mediterranean kinetically but with a slightly rapid electrophoretic mobility , was designated g6pd andalus and was found to have a different mutation , a g -- a transition at nucleotide _num4 , producing an arginine-to-histidine substitution . 
these studies suggest that g6pd mediterranean is , after all , relatively homogeneous . 
small nuclear ribonucleoprotein polypeptide n -lrb- snrpn -rrb- , an expressed gene in the prader-willi syndrome critical region . 
prader-willi syndrome -lrb- pws -rrb- is associated with paternally derived chromosomal deletions in region 15q11-13 or with maternal disomy for chromosome _num2 . 
therefore , loss of the expressed paternal alleles of maternally imprinted genes must be responsible for the pws phenotype . 
we have mapped the gene encoding the small nuclear rna associated polypeptide smn -lrb- snrpn -rrb- to human chromosome 15q12 and a processed pseudogene snrpnp1 to chromosome region 6pter-p21 . 
furthermore , snrpn was mapped to the minimal deletion interval that is critical for pws . 
the fact that the mouse snrpn gene is maternally imprinted in brain suggests that loss of the paternally derived snrpn allele may be involved in the pws phenotype . . 
increased incidence of cancer in patients with cartilage-hair hypoplasia . 
objective previous reports have suggested an increased risk of cancer among patients with cartilage-hair hypoplasia -lrb- chh -rrb- . 
this study was carried out to further evaluate this risk among patients with chh and their first-degree relatives . 
study design one hundred twenty-two patients with chh were identified through _num1 countrywide epidemiologic surveys in _num4 and in _num4 . 
their parents and nonaffected siblings were identified through the population register center . 
this cohort underwent follow-up for cancer incidence through the finnish cancer registry to the end of _num4 . 
results a statistically significant excess risk of cancer was seen among the patients with chh -lrb- standardized incidence ratio _num1 . 
_num1 , _num2 % confidence interval _num1 . 
_num1 to _num2 -rrb- , which was mainly attributable to non-hodgkins lymphoma -lrb- standardized incidence ratio _num2 , _num2 % confidence interval _num2 to _num3 -rrb- . 
in addition , a significant excess risk of basal cell carcinoma was seen -lrb- standardized incidence ratio _num2 , _num2 % confidence interval _num1 . 
_num1 to _num3 -rrb- . 
the cancer incidence among the siblings or the parents did not differ from the average cancer incidence in the finnish population . 
conclusions this study confirms an increased risk of cancer , especially non-hodgkins lymphoma , probably attributable to defective immunity , among patients with chh . 
genetic polymorphism of g6pd in a bulgarian population . 
considerable genetic heterogeneity in g6pd was found in the bulgarian population-14 g6pd variants isolated from _num3 hemizygous carriers of g6pd deficiency . 
of these , g6pd mediterranean type was a polymorphic variant and g6pd corinth occurred with high frequency . 
two new variants were identified-g6pd rudosem and g6pd nedelino . 
in a selected group of _num2 subjects with clinical manifestations , four variants were established g6pd mediterranian , g6pd corinth , g6pd seattle and g6pd ohut ii . . 
a genetic etiology for digeorge syndrome : consistent deletions and microdeletions of 22q11 . 
digeorge syndrome -lrb- dgs -rrb- , a developmental field defect of the third and fourth pharyngeal pouches , is characterized by aplasia or hypoplasia of the thymus and parathyroid glands and by conotruncal cardiac malformations . 
cytogenetic studies support the presence of a dgs critical region in band 22q11 . 
in the present study , we report the results of clinical , cytogenetic , and molecular studies of _num2 patients with dgs . 
chromosome analysis , utilizing high-resolution banding techniques , detected interstitial deletions in five probands and was inconclusive for a deletion in three probands . 
the remaining six patients had normal karyotypes . 
in contrast , molecular analysis detected dna deletions in all _num2 probands . 
two of _num2 loci tested , d22s75 and d22s259 , are deleted in all _num2 patients . 
a third locus , d22s66 , is deleted in the eight dgs probands tested . 
physical mapping using somatic cell hybrids places d22s66 between d22s75 and d22s259 , suggesting that it should be deleted in the remaining six cases . 
parent-of-origin studies were performed in five families . 
four probands failed to inherit a maternal allele , and one failed to inherit a paternal allele . 
on the basis of these families , and of six maternally and five paternally derived unbalanced-translocation dgs probands in the literature , parent of origin or imprinting does not appear to play an important role in the pathogenesis of dgs . 
deletion of the same three loci in all _num2 dgs probands begins to delineate the region of chromosome _num2 critical for dgs and confirms the hypothesis that submicroscopic deletions of 22q11 are etiologic in the vast majority of cases . . 
characterisation of a new rare fragile site easily confused with the fragile x . 
a new fragile site -lrb- fraxe -rrb- in xq28 is described . 
it appears to be a typical folate sensitive fragile site . 
the fragile site is not associated with mental retardation , it does not give abnormal results when subjected to southern analysis with probe pfxa3 which detects the unstable dna sequence characteristic of fragile x syndrome . 
in situ hybridization mapping locates the fragile site between _num3 kb and _num3 kb distal to fraxa . 
the distinction between the two fragile sites is important clinically since cytogenetic detection of fraxe , without molecular analysis , could result in misdiagnosis of fragile x syndrome . . 
brca1 mutations in primary breast and ovarian carcinomas . 
loss of heterozygosity data from familial tumors suggest that brca1 , a gene that confers susceptibility to ovarian and early-onset breast cancer , encodes a tumor suppressor . 
the brca1 region is also subject to allelic loss in sporadic breast and ovarian cancers , an indication that brca1 mutations may occur somatically in these tumors . 
the brca1 coding region was examined for mutations in primary breast and ovarian tumors that show allele loss at the brca1 locus . 
mutations were detected in _num1 of _num2 breast and _num1 of _num2 ovarian carcinomas ; all four mutations were germline alterations and occurred in early-onset cancers . 
these results suggest that mutation of brca1 may not be critical in the development of the majority of breast and ovarian cancers that arise in the absence of a mutant germline allele . . 
genomic structure of the ews gene and its relationship to ewsr1 , a site of tumor associated chromosome translocation . 
the ews gene has been identified based on its location at the chromosome _num2 breakpoint of the t -lrb- _num2 ; _num2 -rrb- -lrb- _an ; _an -rrb- translocation that characterizes ewing sarcoma and related neuroectodermal tumors . 
the ews gene spans about _num2 kb of dna and is encoded by _num2 exons . 
the nucleotide sequence of the exons is identical to that of the previously described cdna . 
the first _num1 exons encode the n-terminal domain of ews , which consists of a repeated degenerated polypeptide of _num1 to _num2 residues rich in tyrosine , serine , threonine , glycine , and glutamine . 
exons _num2 , _num2 , and _num2 encode the putative rna binding domain . 
the three glycine - and arginine-rich motifs of the gene are mainly encoded by exons 8-9 , _num2 , and _num2 . 
the dna sequence in the _num1 region of the gene has features of a cpg-rich island and lacks canonical promoter elements , such as _ds and _ds consensus sequences . 
positions of the chromosome _num2 breakpoints were determined for _num2 ewing tumors . 
they were localized in introns _num1 or _num1 in _num2 cases and in intron _num2 in _num1 case . . 
pax6 mutations in aniridia . 
aniridia is a congenital malformation of the eye , chiefly characterised by iris hypoplasia , which can cause blindness . 
the pax6 gene was isolated as a candidate aniridia gene by positional cloning from the smallest region of overlap of aniridia associated deletions . 
subsequently pax6 intragenic mutations were demonstrated in smalleye , a mouse mutant which is an animal model for aniridia , and six human aniridia patients . 
in this paper we describe four additional pax6 point mutations in aniridia patients , both sporadic and familial . 
these mutations highlight regions of the gene which are essential for normal pax6 function . 
in addition , the frequency at which we have found pax6 mutations suggests that lesions in pax6 will account for most cases of aniridia . . 
mutations in the pax6 gene in patients with hereditary aniridia . 
the _num2 exons of the pax6 gene have been analysed exon-by-exon using sscp in _num1 aniridia families . 
in each family band shifts were observed on the sscp gels for only one exon and direct pcr-sequencing revealed mutations in each case . 
two mutations involved c -- > t transitions in cgaarg codons in exons _num1 and _num2 . 
another c -- > t transition converted a cag-glutamine to a tag-stop in exon _num1 . 
small insertions created frameshifts which produced downstream stop codons in another two patients and an a -- > t mutation disrupted the splice donor site of exon _num1 in the remaining family . 
thus , complete inactivation of the pax6 gene is predicted in all cases . 
analysis of other affected members of the families showed that , in each case , all affected individuals carried the same family-specific mutation . 
one polymorphism was found in exon _num1 . 
this data strongly supports the candidature of pax6 as the gene responsible for hereditary aniridia . . 
locus heterogeneity in friedreich ataxia . 
friedreich ataxia -lrb- frda -rrb- is the most common form of autosomal recessive ataxia . 
the disease locus was assigned to chromosome _num1 and the disease gene , stm7 / x25 , has been isolated . 
to date most data suggest locus homogeneity in frda . 
we now provide strong evidence of a second frda locus . 
studying two siblings with frda from two families we did not detect a mutation in stm7 / x25 . 
haplotype analysis of the stm7 / x25 region of chromosome _num1 demonstrated that the relevant portion of chromosome _num1 differs in the patients . 
although the patients studied had typical frda , one sibpair had the uncommon symptom of retained tendon reflexes . 
in order to investigate whether retained tendon reflexes are characteristic of frda caused by the second locus , frda2 , we studied an unrelated frda patient with retained tendon reflexes . 
the observation of typical mutations in stm7 / x25 -lrb- _ds expansions -rrb- in this patient demonstrates that the two genetically different forms of frda can not be distinguished clinically . . 
haploinsufficiency of the transcription factors foxc1 and foxc2 results in aberrant ocular development . 
anterior segment developmental disorders , including axenfeld-rieger anomaly -lrb- ara -rrb- , variably associate with harmfully elevated intraocular pressure -lrb- iop -rrb- , which causes glaucoma . 
clinically observed dysgenesis does not correlate with iop , however , and the etiology of glaucoma development is not understood . 
the forkhead transcription factor genes foxc1 -lrb- formerly mf1 -rrb- and foxc2 -lrb- formerly mfh1 -rrb- are expressed in the mesenchyme from which the ocular drainage structures derive . 
mutations in the human homolog of foxc1 , fkhl7 , cause dominant anterior segment defects and glaucoma in various families . 
we show that foxc1 -lrb- + / - -rrb- mice have anterior segment abnormalities similar to those reported in human patients . 
these abnormalities include small or absent schlemms canal , aberrantly developed trabecular meshwork , iris hypoplasia , severely eccentric pupils and displaced schwalbes line . 
the penetrance of clinically obvious abnormalities varies with genetic background . 
in some affected eyes , collagen bundles were half normal diameter , or collagen and elastic tissue were very sparse . 
thus , abnormalities in extracellular matrix synthesis or organization may contribute to development of the ocular phenotypes . 
despite the abnormalities in ocular drainage structures in foxc1 -lrb- + / - -rrb- mice , iop was normal in almost all mice analyzed , on all genetic backgrounds and at all ages . 
similar abnormalities were found in foxc2 -lrb- + / - -rrb- mice , but no disease-associated mutations were identified in the human homolog fkhl14 in _num2 ara patients . 
foxc1 -lrb- + / - -rrb- and foxc2 -lrb- + / - -rrb- mice are useful models for studying anterior segment development and its anomalies , and may allow identification of genes that interact with foxc1 and foxc2 -lrb- or fkhl7 and fkhl14 -rrb- to produce a phenotype with elevated iop and glaucoma . . 
the dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans associated collagen type ialpha1 / platelet-derived growth factor -lrb- pdgf -rrb- b-chain fusion gene generates a transforming protein that is processed to functional pdgf-bb . 
dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans -lrb- dfsp -rrb- displays chromosomal rearrangements involving chromosome _num2 and _num2 , which fuse the collagen type ialpha1 -lrb- colia1 -rrb- gene to the platelet-derived growth factor -lrb- pdgf -rrb- b-chain -lrb- pdgfb -rrb- gene . 
to characterize the functional and structural properties of the colia1 / pdgfb fusion protein , we generated a stable nih3t3 cell line that contained a tumor derived chimeric gene resulting from a coia1 intron 7-pdgfb intron _num1 fusion . 
expression of the fusion protein led to morphological transformation and increased growth rate of these cells . 
the pdgf receptor kinase inhibitor cgp57148b reversed the transformed phenotype and reduced the growth rate of colia1 / pdgfb-expressing cells but had no effects on control cells . 
the presence of dimeric colia1 / pdgfb precursors was demonstrated through pdgfb immunoprecipitations of metabolically labeled cells and also by pdgfb immunoprecipitations followed by immunoblotting with colia1 antibodies . 
pulse-chase studies demonstrated that the colia1 / pdgfb precursor was processed to an end product that was indistinguishable from wild-type pdgf-bb . 
finally , colia1 / pdgfb-expressing cells generated tumors after s. c c. injection into nude mice , and tumor growth was reduced by treatment with cgp57148b . 
we conclude that the colia1 / pdgfb fusion associated with dfsp contributes to tumor development through ectopic production of pdgf-bb and the formation of an autocrine loop . 
our findings , thus , suggest that pdgf receptors could be a target for pharmacological treatment of dfsp and giant cell fibroblastoma , e. g. , through the use of pdgf receptor kinase inhibitors such as cgp57148b . 
founder effect of a prevalent phenylketonuria mutation in the oriental population . 
a missense mutation has been identified in the human phenylalanine hydroxylase -lsb- pah ; phenylalanine 4-monooxygenase ; l-phenylalanine , tetrahydrobiopterin oxygen oxidoreductase -lrb- 4-hydroxylating -rrb- , ec _num1 . 
_num2 . 
_num2 . 
_num1 -rsb- gene in a chinese patient with classic phenylketonuria -lrb- pku -rrb- . 
a g-to-c transition at the second base of codon _num3 in exon _num2 of the gene results in the substitution of pro413 for arg413 in the mutant protein . 
this mutation -lrb- r413p -rrb- results in negligible enzymatic activity when expressed in heterologous mammalian cells and is compatible with a classic pku phenotype in the patient . 
population genetic studies reveal that this mutation is tightly linked to restriction fragment length polymorphism haplotype _num1 , which is the predominant haplotype of the pah locus in the oriental population . 
it accounts for _num2 . 
_num1 % of northern chinese and _num2 % of japanese pku alleles , but it is rare in southern chinese -lrb- _num1 . 
_num1 % -rrb- and is absent in the caucasian population . 
the data demonstrate unambiguously that the mutation occurred after racial divergence of orientals and caucasians and suggest that the allele has spread throughout the orient by a founder effect . 
previous protein polymorphism studies in eastern asia have led to the hypothesis that '' northern mongoloids '' represented a founding population in asia . 
our results are compatible with this hypothesis in that the pku mutation might have occurred in northern mongoloids and subsequently spread to the chinese and japanese populations . 
late-onset familial mediterranean fever -lrb- fmf -rrb- : a subset with distinct clinical , demographic , and molecular genetic characteristics . 
to determine the prevalence and characterize demographic , clinical , and genetic features of familial mediterranean fever -lrb- fmf -rrb- of late onset , all patients experiencing their first fmf attack at age _num2 years or more were identified using the computerized registry of our fmf clinic , and then thoroughly interviewed and examined . 
the control group consisted of _num2 consecutive fmf patients , who arrived at the fmf clinic for their regular follow-up visit and were _num2 years of age or older at the time of the examination . 
the severity of the disease in patients and controls was determined using a modified score , developed previously . 
mutational analysis in the fmf gene was performed using a commercial kit . 
only _num2 of _num4 -lrb- _num1 . 
_num1 % -rrb- patients had late-onset fmf . 
these patients were mostly men , of non-north african origin , p < _num1 . 
_num2 compared to controls . 
all had abdominal attacks and in most these were the only manifestation of their disease , p < _num1 . 
_num3 _num3 . 
none had chronic or prolonged manifestations of fmf , for example , amyloidosis , chronic arthritis , or protracted myalgia , p < _num1 . 
_num3 . 
the response to treatment was good despite using low colchicine dose , p < _num1 . 
_num2 . 
the overall severity score indicated a mild disease , p < _num1 . 
_num3 . 
mutational analysis revealed absence of m694v homozygosity , p < _num1 . 
_num2 , compared to our regular fmf population . 
we conclude that the onset of fmf in a late age defines a milder form of disease with typical clinical , demographic , and molecular genetic characteristics structure of the human na + / glucose cotransporter gene sglt1 . 
intestinal uptake of dietary glucose and galactose is mediated by the sglt1 na + / glucose cotransporter of the brush border . 
an sglt1 missense mutation underlies hereditary glucose / galactose malabsorption , characterized by potentially fatal diarrhea ; conversely , oral rehydration therapy exploits normal transport to alleviate life-threatening diarrhea of infectious origin . 
we have mapped the entire human sglt1 na + / glucose cotransporter gene from cosmid and lambda phage clones representing a genomic region of _num3 kilobases . 
transcription initiation occurred from a site _num2 base pairs _num1 of a _ds sequence . 
all exon-flanking regions were sequenced , and the entire 112-kilobase region mapped with four restriction enzymes . 
sglt1 is comprised of _num2 exons -lrb- spanning _num2 kilobases -rrb- ; a possible evolutionary origin from a six-membrane-span ancestral precursor via a gene duplication event is suggested from comparison of exons against protein secondary structure and from sequence considerations . 
a new missense mutation in exon _num1 causing glucose / galactose malabsorption is also described . 
this is the first na -lrb- + -rrb- - dependent cotransporter gene structure reported . 
these data facilitate the search for new glucose / galactose malabsorption related mutations in this important gene and provide a basis for future evolutionary comparisons with other na -lrb- + -rrb- - dependent cotransporters . . 
atm phosphorylates p95 / nbs1 in an s-phase checkpoint pathway . 
the rare diseases ataxia-telangiectasia -lrb- _ds -rrb- , caused by mutations in the atm gene , and nijmegen breakage syndrome -lrb- nbs -rrb- , with mutations in the p95 / nbs1 gene , share a variety of phenotypic abnormalities such as chromosomal instability , radiation sensitivity and defects in cell-cycle checkpoints in response to ionizing radiation . 
the atm gene encodes a protein kinase that is activated by ionizing radiation or radiomimetic drugs , whereas p95 / nbs1 is part of a protein complex that is involved in responses to dna double-strand breaks . 
here , because of the similarities between _ds and nbs , we evaluated the functional interactions between atm and p95 / nbs1 . 
activation of the atm kinase by ionizing radiation and induction of atm-dependent responses in nbs cells indicated that p95 / nbs1 may not be required for signalling to atm after ionizing radiation . 
however , p95 / nbs1 was phosphorylated on serine _num3 in an atm-dependent manner in vitro and in vivo after ionizing radiation . 
a p95 / nbs1 construct mutated at the atm phosphorylation site abrogated an s-phase checkpoint induced by ionizing radiation in normal cells and failed to compensate for this functional deficiency in nbs cells . 
these observations link atm and p95 / nbs1 in a common signalling pathway and provide an explanation for phenotypic similarities in these two diseases . . 
two distinct mutations at a single bamhi site in phenylketonuria . 
classical phenylketonuria is an autosomal recessive disease caused by a deficiency of hepatic phenylalanine hydroxylase -lrb- pah -rrb- . 
the abolition of an invariant bamhi site located in the coding sequence of the pah gene -lrb- exon _num1 -rrb- led to the recognition of two new point mutations at codon _num3 and _num3 -lrb- 272gly -- stop and 273ser -- phe , respectively -rrb- . 
both mutations were detected in north eastern france or belgium and occurred on the background of rflp haplotype _num1 alleles . 
the present study supports the view that the clinical heterogeneity in pku is accounted for by the large variety of mutant genotypes associated with pah deficiencies . . 
functional link between ataxia-telangiectasia and nijmegen breakage syndrome gene products . 
ataxia-telangiectasia -lrb- a-t -rrb- and nijmegen breakage syndrome -lrb- nbs -rrb- are recessive genetic disorders with susceptibility to cancer and similar cellular phenotypes . 
the protein product of the gene responsible for a-t , designated atm , is a member of a family of kinases characterized by a carboxy-terminal phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-like domain . 
the nbs1 protein is specifically mutated in patients with nijmegen breakage syndrome and forms a complex with the dna repair proteins rad50 and mrel1 . 
here we show that phosphorylation of nbs1 , induced by ionizing radiation , requires catalytically active atm . 
complexes containing atm and nbs1 exist in vivo in both untreated cells and cells treated with ionizing radiation . 
we have identified two residues of nbs1 , ser _num3 and ser _num3 that are phosphorylated in vitro by atm and whose modification in vivo is essential for the cellular response to dna damage . 
this response includes s-phase checkpoint activation , formation of the nbs1 / mrel1 / rad50 nuclear foci and rescue of hypersensitivity to ionizing radiation . 
together , these results demonstrate a biochemical link between cell-cycle checkpoints activated by dna damage and dna repair in two genetic diseases with overlapping phenotypes . . 
structure and genomic sequence of the myotonic dystrophy -lrb- dm kinase -rrb- gene . 
the mutation causing myotonic dystrophy -lrb- dm -rrb- has recently been identified as an unstable _ds trinucleotide repeat located in the _num1 untranslated region of a gene encoding for a protein with putative serine-threonine protein kinase activity . 
in this report we present the genomic sequences of the human and murine dm kinase gene . 
a comparison of these sequences with each other and with known cdna sequences from both species , led us to predict a translation initiation codon , as well as determine the organization of the dm kinase gene . 
several polymorphisms within the human dm kinase gene have been identified , and pcr assays to detect two of these are described . 
the complete sequence and characterization of the structure of the dm kinase gene , as well as the identification of novel polymorphisms within the gene , represent an important step in a further understanding of the genetics of myotonic dystrophy and the molecular biology of the gene . . 
identification of novel imprinted transcripts in the prader-willi syndrome and angelman syndrome deletion region : further evidence for regional imprinting control . 
deletions and other abnormalities of human chromosome 15q11-q13 are associated with two developmental disorders , prader-willi syndrome -lrb- pws -rrb- and angelman syndrome -lrb- as -rrb- . 
loss of expression of imprinted , paternally expressed genes has been implicated in pws . 
however , the number of imprinted genes that contribute to pws , and the range over which the imprinting signal acts to silence one copy of the gene in a parent-of-origin-specific manner , are unknown . 
to identify additional imprinted genes that could contribute to the pws phenotype and to understand the regional control of imprinting in 15q11-q13 , we have constructed an imprinted transcript map of the pws-as deletion interval . 
the imprinting status of _num2 expressed sequence tags derived from the radiation-hybrid human transcript maps or physical maps was determined in a reverse transcriptase-pcr assay and correlated with the position of the transcripts on the physical map . 
seven new paternally expressed transcripts localize to an approximately _num1 . 
5-mb domain surrounding the snrpn-associated imprinting center , which already includes four imprinted , paternally expressed genes . 
all other tested new transcripts in the deletion region were expressed from both alleles . 
a domain of exclusive paternal expression surrounding the imprinting center suggests strong regional control of the imprinting process . 
this study provides the means for further investigation of additional genes that cause or modify the phenotypes associated with rearrangements of 15q11-q13 . 
penetrances of brca1 1675dela and 1135insa with respect to breast cancer and ovarian cancer . 
for genetic counseling and predictive testing in families with inherited breast-ovarian cancer , penetrances and expressions of the underlying mutations should be known . 
we have previously reported two brca1 founder mutations in the norwegian population . 
index cases for the present study were found two different ways through a series of consecutive ovarian cancers -lrb- n = _num2 -rrb- and through our family cancer clinic -lrb- n = _num2 -rrb- . 
altogether , _num2 of the patients had brca1 1675dela , and _num2 had 1135insa . 
their relatives were described with respect to absence / presence of breast and / or ovarian cancer . 
of _num3 living female relatives , _num2 -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- were tested for the presence of a mutation . 
no difference , in penetrance and expression , between the two mutations were found , whereas differences according to method of ascertainment were seen . 
the overall findings were that disease started to occur at age _num2 years and that by age _num2 years _num2 % of the mutation-carrying women had experienced breast and / or ovarian cancer . 
more ovarian cancers than breast cancers were recorded . 
both penetrance and expression -lrb- breast cancer vs. ovarian cancer -rrb- were different from those in reports of the ashkenazi founder mutations . 
whether the reported differences reflect true differences and / or methodological problems is discussed . 
an observed excess of mutation carriers could not be accounted for by methodological problems ; possible explanations were a '' true '' low penetrance or preferential segregation . . 
molecular basis of subtotal complement c6 deficiency . 
a carboxy-terminally truncated but functionally active c6 . 
individuals with subtotal complement c6 deficiency possess a c6 molecule that is _num2 % shorter than normal c6 and present in low but detectable concentrations -lrb- 1-2 % of the normal mean -rrb- . 
we now show that this dysmorphic c6 is bactericidally active and lacks an epitope that was mapped to the most carboxy-terminal part of c6 using c6 cdna fragments expressed as fusion proteins in the puex expression system . 
we thus predicted that the abnormal c6 molecule might be carboxy-terminally truncated and sought a mutation in an area approximately _num2 % from the carboxy-terminal end of the coding sequence . 
by sequencing pcr-amplified products from this region , we found , in three individuals from two families , a mutation that might plausibly be responsible for the defect . 
all three have an abnormal _num1 splice donor site of intron _num2 , which would probably prevent splicing . 
an in-frame stop codon is found _num2 codons downstream from the intron boundary , which would lead to a truncated polypeptide _num2 . 
_num1 % smaller than normal c6 . 
this result was unexpected , as earlier studies mapped the c5b binding site , or a putative enzymatic region , to this part of c6 . 
interestingly , all three subjects were probably heterozygous for both subtotal c6 and complete c6 deficiency . 
mutations of the vhl gene in sporadic renal cell carcinoma : definition of a risk factor for vhl patients to develop an rcc . 
to investigate the nature of somatic von hippel-lindau -lrb- vhl -rrb- mutations , we analyzed _num3 primary sporadic human renal cell carcinomas for mutations of the vhl tumor suppressor gene , using polymerase chain reaction -lrb- pcr -rrb- and single-strand conformational polymorphism analysis -lrb- sscp -rrb- of dna . 
we detected abnormal sscp pattern in _num2 samples . 
after sequencing , we identified microdeletions in _num2 % of cases , microinsertions in _num2 % , nonsense mutations in _num1 % , and missense mutations in _num2 % . 
among these mutations , _num2 % correspond to new mutations . 
vhl mutations were found only in the nonpapillary renal cell carcinoma -lrb- rcc -rrb- subtype , as previously reported . 
to compare somatic and germline mutations , we used the vhl database , which includes _num3 mutations . 
the study of mutational events revealed a significant difference between somatic and germline mutations with mutations leading to truncated proteins observed in _num2 % of somatic mutations vs only _num2 % in germline mutations -lrb- p < _num1 . 
_num3 -rrb- . 
we postulated that a specific pattern of vhl mutations is associated with sporadic rcc . 
this pattern corresponds to mutations leading mainly to truncated proteins with few specific missense mutations . 
we then analyzed the occurrence of rcc in vhl families , based on the nature of mutations . 
we observed rcc in at least one member of the vhl families in _num2 % of cases with mutations leading to truncated proteins versus _num2 % in cases with missense mutations -lrb- p < _num1 . 
_num2 -rrb- . 
thus , mutations resulting in truncated proteins may lead to a higher risk of rcc in vhl patients evidence for inter-generational instability in the _ds repeat in the mjd1 gene and for conserved haplotypes at flanking markers amongst japanese and caucasian subjects with machado-joseph disease . 
the size of the -lrb- _ds -rrb- n repeat array in the _num1 ' end of the mjd1 gene and the haplotype at a series of microsatellite markers surrounding the mjd1 gene were examined in a large cohort of japanese and caucasian subjects affected with machado-joseph disease -lrb- mjd -rrb- . 
our data provide five novel observations . 
first , mjd is associated with expansion fo the array from the normal range of 14-37 repeats to 68-84 repeats in most japanese and caucasian subjects , but no subjects were observed with expansions intermediate in size between those of the normal and mjd affected groups . 
second , the expanded allele associated with mjd displays inter-generational instability , particularly in male meioses , and this instability was associated with the clinical phenomenon of anticipation . 
third , the size of the expanded allele is not only inversely correlated with the age-of-onset of mjd -lrb- r = -0.738 , p < _fn -rrb- , but is also correlated with the frequency of other clinical features -lsb- e.g. pseudoexophthalmos and pyramidal signs were more frequent in subjects with large repeats -lrb- p < _fn and p < _fn respectively -rrb- -rsb- . 
fourth , the disease phenotype is significantly more severe and had an early age of onset -lrb- _num2 years -rrb- in a subject homozygous for the expanded allele , which contrasts with huntington disease and suggests that the expanded allele in the mjd1 gene could exert its effect either by a dominant negative effect -lrb- putatively excluded in hd -rrb- or by a gain of function effect as proposed for hd . 
finally , japanese and caucasian subjects affected with mjd share haplotypes at several markers surrounding the mjd1 gene , which are uncommon in the normal japanese and caucasian population , and which suggests the existence either of common founders in these populations or of chromosomes susceptible to pathologic expansion of the _ds repeat in the mjd1 gene . 
myotonic dystrophy : the role of the cug triplet repeats in splicing of a novel dmpk exon and altered cytoplasmic dmpk mrna isoform ratios . 
the mechanism by which -lrb- _ds -rrb- n expansion in the _num1 utr of the dmpk gene causes myotonic dystrophy -lrb- dm -rrb- is unknown . 
we identified four rna splicing factors -- hnrnp c , u2af -lrb- u2 auxiliary factor -rrb- , ptb -lrb- polypyrimidine tract binding protein -rrb- , and psf -lrb- ptb associated splicing factor -rrb- -- that bind to two short regions _num1 of the -lrb- cug -rrb- n , and found a novel _num1 dmpk exon resulting in an mrna lacking the repeats . 
we propose that the -lrb- cug -rrb- n is an essential cis acting element for this splicing event . 
in contrast to -lrb- cug -rrb- n containing mrnas , the novel isoform is not retained in the nucleus in dm cells , resulting in imbalances in relative levels of cytoplasmic dmpk mrna isoforms and a new dominant effect of the mutation on dmpk . . 
mechanism of increased iron absorption in murine model of hereditary hemochromatosis : increased duodenal expression of the iron transporter dmt1 . 
hereditary hemochromatosis -lrb- hh -rrb- is a common autosomal recessive disorder characterized by tissue iron deposition secondary to excessive dietary iron absorption . 
we recently reported that hfe , the protein defective in hh , was physically associated with the transferrin receptor -lrb- tfr -rrb- in duodenal crypt cells and proposed that mutations in hfe attenuate the uptake of transferrin-bound iron from plasma by duodenal crypt cells , leading to up-regulation of transporters for dietary iron . 
here , we tested the hypothesis that hfe - / - mice have increased duodenal expression of the divalent metal transporter -lrb- dmt1 -rrb- . 
by _num1 weeks of age , the hfe - / - mice demonstrated iron loading when compared with hfe + / + littermates , with elevated transferrin saturations -lrb- _num2 . 
_num1 % vs. _num2 . 
_num1 % -rrb- and elevated liver iron concentrations -lrb- _num3 micrograms vs. _num3 micrograms -rrb- . 
by using northern blot analyses , we quantitated duodenal expression of both classes of dmt1 transcripts one containing an iron responsive element -lrb- ire -rrb- , called dmt1 -lrb- ire -rrb- , and one containing no ire , called dmt1 -lrb- non-ire -rrb- . 
the positive control for dmt1 up-regulation was a murine model of dietary iron deficiency that demonstrated greatly increased levels of duodenal dmt1 -lrb- ire -rrb- mrna . 
hfe - / - mice also demonstrated an increase in duodenal dmt1 -lrb- ire -rrb- mrna -lrb- average _num1 . 
7-fold -rrb- , despite their elevated transferrin saturation and hepatic iron content . 
duodenal expression of dmt1 -lrb- non-ire -rrb- was not increased , nor was hepatic expression of dmt1 increased . 
these data support the model for hh in which hfe mutations lead to inappropriately low crypt cell iron , with resultant stabilization of dmt1 -lrb- ire -rrb- mrna , up-regulation of dmt1 , and increased absorption of dietary iron . 
yeast artificial chromosomes for the molecular analysis of the familial polyposis apc gene region . 
two yeast artificial chromosomes -lrb- yacs -rrb- spanning a total distance of _num1 . 
_num1 megabase pairs of dna around the mcc -lrb- for mutated in colorectal carcinoma -rrb- and apc -lrb- for adenomatous polyposis coli -rrb- genes at 5q21 have been isolated and characterized . 
starting from the mcc gene , a strategy was undertaken to identify constitutional submicroscopic deletions in familial adenomatous polyposis patients that might considerably narrow down the position of the apc gene . 
to this end , yacs identified by the mcc gene were screened across a chromosome 5-specific cosmid library to provide a source of dna probes for genomic scanning . 
the cosmids isolated from these experiments were used to screen a panel of somatic cell hybrids containing chromosome _num1 segregated from patients suspected to carry putative interstitial deletions . 
this screening approach led to the confirmation of a small heterozygous deletion in a polyposis patient that overlaps one of the two isolated yacs . 
this yac has been shown to contain the entire apc gene , in addition to a significant portion of dna flanking the _num1 end of the gene , and should therefore prove a valuable resource for functional studies by transfer to colorectal tumor derived cell lines . 
analbuminemia in an american indian girl . 
analbuminemia was fortuitously detected in a nonedematous 12-year-old american indian girl with atopic dermatitis , mild bronchial asthma , a mild seizure disorder , and hyperlipoproteinemia with a corneal arcus . 
immunologic methods revealed trace amounts -lrb- _num2 mg / 100 ml -rrb- of apparently normal serum albumin . 
the patients parents were remotely related . 
the pedigree and clinical findings were compatible with autosomal recessive transmission of analbuminemia . 
heterozygotes had subnormal levels of serum albumin . 
the gc-locus is closely linked to the structural albumin locus . 
gc-protein levels were normal in the patient and together with normal chromosomal banding studies make it unlikely that a chromosomal deletion caused analbuminemia . 
gc-types in the family were compatible with , but did not prove , linkage of analbuminemia to the gc-locus . 
these findings suggest a '' thalassemia '' - like mutation for this disorder . . 
treatment of duchenne muscular dystrophy with growth hormone inhibitors . 
a controlled , double-blind therapeutic trial with the drug mazindol , a growth hormone inhibitor , was performed in a pair of 71 / 2 year-old monozygotic twins , with duchenne muscular dystrophy -lrb- dmd -rrb- . 
the rationale for this trial was based on a patient -lrb- reported previously -rrb- affected simultaneously with dmd and growth hormone -lrb- gh -rrb- deficiency , who is showing a benign course of the dystrophic process and is still walking at _num2 years . 
one of the twins received _num1 mg of mazindol daily , while the other received a placebo . 
the assessment , repeated every _num1 months , included weight and height measurements , functional and motor ability tests , ergometry and determinations of serum enzymes and gh levels . 
after one year of trial the code was broken and it was seen that the twin under placebo treatment was strikingly worse than his brother , the progression of whose condition was practically arrested . 
these results strongly suggest that treatment with a gh inhibitor is beneficial for dmd patients . . 
identification of wasp mutations in patients with wiskott-aldrich syndrome and isolated thrombocytopenia reveals allelic heterogeneity at the was locus . 
mutation in the gene encoding the recently isolated wasp protein has now been identified as the genetic defect responsible for the x-linked wiskott-aldrich syndrome -lrb- was -rrb- , a primary immunodeficiency disease associated with extensive phenotypic variability . 
to elucidate the range of wasp mutations responsible for was , we used pcr-sscp analysis to screen for wasp gene mutation in _num2 unrelated boys with the diagnosis of classical or attenuated was or isolated thrombocytopenia . 
all _num2 patients had wasp mutations , each of which localized to the initial three or terminal three exons of the gene , and the majority of which were unique in each case . 
however , a missense mutation which results in substitution of the arginine at was codon _num2 was identified in three boys with severe was as well as in one boy presenting with thrombocytopenia alone . 
while the three mutations found in the isolated thrombocytopenia patients leave the reading frame intact , about one-half of the gene alterations detected in both severe and attenuated was patients result in frameshifted transcript and premature translation termination . 
these findings therefore confirm the association of was with wasp mutation and identify wasp mutation as a cause for isolated congenital thrombocytopenia in males . 
while the wasp gene defects responsible for isolated thrombocytopenia and other mild presentations of was do not appear distinct from those resulting in severe was , these data indicate that analysis of wasp gene mutation provides a valuable tool for distinguishing the spectrum of was patients and the subset of males with isolated thrombocytopenia who represent mild cases of was . . 
huntington disease without _ds expansion : phenocopies or errors in assignment ? 
huntington disease -lrb- hd -rrb- has been shown to be associated with an expanded _ds repeat within a novel gene on 4p16 . 
_num1 -lrb- it15 -rrb- . 
a total of _num2 of _num1 , _num3 affected persons -lrb- _num1 . 
_num1 % of our cohort -rrb- did not have an expanded _ds in the disease range . 
the reasons for not observing expansion in affected individuals are important for determining the sensitivity of using repeat length both for diagnosis of affected patients and for predictive testing programs and may have biological relevance for the understanding of the molecular mechanism underlying hd . 
here we show that the majority -lrb- _num2 -rrb- of the individuals with normal sized alleles represent misdiagnosis , sample mix-up , or clerical error . 
the remaining _num2 patients represent possible phenocopies for hd . 
in at least four cases , family studies of these phenocopies excluded 4p16 . 
_num1 as the region responsible for the phenotype . 
mutations in the hd gene that are other than _ds expansion have not been excluded for the remaining eight cases ; however , in as many as seven of these persons , retrospective review of these patients clinical features identified characteristics not typical for hd . 
this study shows that on rare occasions mutations in other , as-yet-undefined genes can present with a clinical phenotype very similar to that of hd allelic exclusion of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase in platelets and t lymphocytes from a wiskott-aldrich syndrome carrier . 
an obligate carrier of the wiskott-aldrich syndrome -lrb- was -rrb- who was also heterozygous for the a and b types of x-linked glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase was found . 
with her it became possible to determine whether allelic exclusion occurs in particular cell-types of the was carrier . 
if so , the remaining cells of a particular cell-type would express only the normal x chromosome and only one glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase isoenzyme would be demonstrable . 
this carrier had only the b isoenzyme of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase in platelets and thymus-derived t lymphocytes , although both isoenzymes a and b were present in erythrocytes and neutrophils . 
these findings suggest that selection against the was gene occurs in platelets and thymus-derived t lymphocytes and that the defects associated with was expressed in these cell-types may be implicated in the genesis of the wiskott-aldrich syndrome . . 
a novel mutation in the sodium / iodide symporter gene in the largest family with iodide transport defect . 
we previously reported nine children with an autosomally recessive form of congenital hypothyroidism due to an iodide transport defect in a large hutterite family with extensive consanguinity living in central canada . 
since the original report , we have diagnosed congenital hypothyroidism by newborn tsh screening in _num1 additional children from the family . 
we performed direct sequencing of the pcr products of each nis -lrb- sodium / iodide symporter -rrb- gene exon with flanking introns amplified from genomic dna extracted from peripheral blood cells of the patients . 
we identified a novel nis gene mutation , g395r -lrb- gly395 -- > arg ; _ds -- > _ds -rrb- , in _num2 patients examined in the present study . 
all of the parents tested were heterozygous for the mutation , suggesting that the patients were homozygous . 
the mutation was located in the 10th transmembrane helix . 
expression experiments by transfection of the mutant nis complimentary dna into cos-7 cells showed no perchlorate-sensitive iodide uptake , confirming that the mutation is the direct cause of the iodide transport defect in these patients . 
a patient who showed an intermediate saliva / serum technetium ratio -lrb- _num2 . 
_num1 ; normal , > or = _num2 -rrb- and was considered to have a partial or less severe defect in the previous report -lrb- ix-24 -rrb- did not have a nis gene mutation . 
it is now possible to use gene diagnostics of this unique nis mutation to identify patients with congenital hypothyroidism due to an iodide transport defect in this family and to determine the carrier state of potential parents for genetic counseling and arranging rapid and early diagnosis of their infants . 
determination of the mutations responsible for the lesch-nyhan syndrome in _num2 subjects . 
hypoxanthine -- guanine phosphoribosyltransferase -lrb- hprt -rrb- is a purine salvage enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of hypoxanthine to inosine monophosphate and guanine to guanosine monophosphate . 
previous studies of mutant hprt proteins analyzed at the molecular level have shown a significant heterogeneity . 
this investigation further verifies this heterogeneity and identifies insertions , deletions , and point mutations . 
the direct sequencing of the polymerase chain reaction-amplified product of reverse-transcribed hprt mrna enabled the rapid identification of the mutations found in _num2 previously uncharacterized cell lines derived from patients with the lesch-nyhan syndrome . . 
a new _ds pattern in adrenoleukodystrophy . 
a new _ds pattern was observed in _num1 patients with adrenoleukodystrophy -lrb- ald -rrb- . 
this pattern , which the authors call type ii , is characterized by the absence of posterior periventricular areas of decreased attenuation around the trigone on non-contrast scans after contrast infusion , however , there is striking enhancement of various white-matter structures -lrb- tracts or fiber systems -rrb- such as the internal capsules , corpus callosum , corona radiata , forceps major , and cerebral peduncles . 
this is different from numerous previous descriptions of the _ds pattern in ald . 
type ii ald does not appear to have been seen in any other leukoencephalopathy and is probably specific for a phenotypic variant or an evolving stage of ald . . 
genetic analysis , phenotypic diagnosis , and risk of venous thrombosis in families with inherited deficiencies of protein s . protein s deficiency is a recognized risk factor for venous thrombosis . 
of all the inherited thrombophilic conditions , it remains the most difficult to diagnose because of phenotypic variability , which can lead to inconclusive results . 
we have overcome this problem by studying a cohort of patients from a single center where the diagnosis was confirmed at the genetic level . 
twenty-eight index patients with protein s deficiency and a pros1 gene defect were studied , together with _num3 first-degree relatives . 
to avoid selection bias , we confined analysis of total and free protein s levels and thrombotic risk to the patients relatives . 
in this group of relatives , a low free protein s level was the most reliable predictor of a pros1 gene defect -lrb- sensitivity _num2 . 
_num1 % , specificity _num3 % -rrb- . 
first-degree relatives with a pros1 gene defect had a _num1 . 
0-fold higher risk of thrombosis -lrb- _num2 % confidence interval , _num1 . 
5-16 . 
_num1 -rrb- than those with a normal pros1 gene and no other recognized thrombophilic defect . 
although pregnancy / puerperium and immobility / trauma were important precipitating factors for thrombosis , almost half of the events were spontaneous . 
relatives with splice-site or major structural defects in the pros1 gene were more likely to have had a thrombotic event and had significantly lower total and free protein s levels than those relatives having missense mutations . 
we conclude that persons with pros1 gene defects and protein s deficiency are at increased risk of thrombosis and that free protein s estimation offers the most reliable way of diagnosing the deficiency . 
-lrb- blood . 
_num4 ; _num2 1935-1941 -rrb- . 
severe clinical expression in x-linked emery-dreifuss muscular dystrophy . 
x-linked emery-dreifuss muscular dystrophy -lrb- edmd -rrb- is a relatively rare benign neuromuscular disorder which can vary remarkably in onset , course and severity . 
in the present study , a _ds deletion spanning the nucleotides 631-635 of the emerin gene caused an unusually severe disease phenotype including loss of ambulation and severe muscle wasting in two affected brothers . 
the same mutation has been reported previously in an unrelated family showing a significantly milder phenotype . 
the interfamilial heterogeneity in distribution and in severity of the features in the two families point to environmental or genetic modification as the cause of clinical variability in emery-dreifuss muscular dystrophy . . 
the gene for spinal cerebellar ataxia _num1 -lrb- sca3 -rrb- is located in a region of approximately _num1 cm on chromosome 14q24.3-q32 .2 . 
sca3 , the gene for spinal cerebellar ataxia _num1 , was recently mapped to a 15-cm interval between d14s67 and d14s81 on chromosome 14q , by linkage analysis in two families of french ancestry . 
the sca3 candidate region has now been refined by linkage analysis with four new microsatellite markers -lrb- d14s256 , d14s291 , d14s280 , and afm343vf1 -rrb- in the same two families , in which _num2 additional individuals were genotyped , and in a third french family . 
combined two-point linkage analyses show that the new markers , d14s280 and afm343vf1 , are tightly linked to the sca3 locus , with maximal lod scores , at recombination fraction , -lrb- theta -rrb- = . 
_num2 , of _num1 . 
_num2 and _num2 . 
_num2 , respectively . 
combined multipoint and recombinant haplotype analyses localize the sca3 locus to a 3-cm interval flanked by d14s291 and d14s81 . 
the same allele for d14s280 segregates with the disease locus in the three kindreds . 
this allele is frequent in the french population , however , and linkage disequilibrium is not clearly established . 
the sca3 locus remains within the 29-cm region on 14q24 . 
3-q32 . 
_num1 containing the gene for the machado-joseph disease , which is clinically related to the phenotype determined by sca3 , but it can not yet be concluded that both diseases result from alterations of the same gene huntington disease and childhood-onset tourette syndrome . 
a 40-year-old man with childhood-onset tourette syndrome -lrb- ts -rrb- developed huntington disease -lrb- hd -rrb- . 
we believe this to be the first reported case of childhood-onset ts with adult onset hd . 
discovery of other cases with both disorders may provide clues to the pathophysiology of both conditions . . 
the protein deficient in lowe syndrome is a phosphatidylinositol-4 ,5 - bisphosphate 5-phosphatase . 
lowe syndrome , also known as oculocerebrorenal syndrome , is caused by mutations in the x chromosome-encoded ocrl gene . 
the ocrl protein is _num2 % identical to inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatase ii -lrb- 5-phosphatase ii -rrb- from human platelets over a span of _num3 aa , suggesting that ocrl may be a similar enzyme . 
we engineered a construct of the ocrl cdna that encodes amino acids homologous to the platelet 5-phosphatase for expression in baculovirus-infected sf9 insect cells . 
this cdna encodes aa 264-968 of the ocrl protein . 
the recombinant protein was found to catalyze the reactions also carried out by platelet 5-phosphatase ii . 
thus ocrl converts inositol _num1 , _num1 , 5-trisphosphate to inositol _num1 , 4-bisphosphate , and it converts inositol _num1 , _num1 , _num1 , 5-tetrakisphosphate to inositol _num1 , _num1 , 4-trisphosphate . 
most important , the enzyme converts phosphatidylinositol _num1 , 5-bisphosphate to phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate . 
the relative ability of ocrl to catalyze the three reactions is different from that of 5-phosphatase ii and from that of another 5-phosphatase isoenzyme from platelets , 5-phosphatase i . 
the recombinant ocrl protein hydrolyzes the phospholipid substrate _num2 - to 30-fold better than 5-phosphatase ii , and 5-phosphatase i does not cleave the lipid at all . 
we also show that ocrl functions as a phosphatidylinositol _num1 , 5-bisphosphate 5-phosphatase in ocrl-expressing sf9 cells . 
these results suggest that ocrl is mainly a lipid phosphatase that may control cellular levels of a critical metabolite , phosphatidylinositol _num1 , 5-bisphosphate . 
deficiency of this enzyme apparently causes the protean manifestations of lowe syndrome . . 
microdeletions at chromosome bands 1q32-q41 as a cause of van der woude syndrome . 
van der woude syndrome -lrb- vws -rrb- is an autosomal dominant disorder comprising cleft lip and / or cleft palate and lip pits . 
we reported previously a family whose underlying mutation is a 500-800 kb deletion localized to chromosome bands 1q32-q41 -lsb- sander et al. , _num4 hum mol genet _num1 576-578 -rsb- . 
along with cleft lip / palate and lip pits , affected relatives exhibit developmental delays , suggesting that the function of a gene nearby may also be disrupted . 
to further localize the vws gene we searched for other deletions that cause vws . 
an allele loss assay was performed using a novel highly polymorphic marker , d1s3753 . 
from a panel of _num2 unrelated individuals , we detected an allele loss in one family , indicating the presence of a deletion . 
in this family , the phenotype in three generations of affected individuals was confined to the cardinal signs of vws . 
surprisingly , mapping of the new deletion showed that it extended _num1 . 
2-1 mb beyond the proximal breakpoint for the deletion described previously . 
no deletions were detected in seven cases of popliteal pterygia syndrome , _num2 cases of mixed syndromic forms of cleft lip and palate , and _num3 cases of nonsyndromic cleft lip and palate . 
mucopolysaccharidosis type iva : common double deletion in the n-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfatase gene -lrb- galns -rrb- . 
mucopolysaccharidosis iva -lrb- mps iva -rrb- is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by a deficiency in n-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfatase -lrb- galns -rrb- . 
we found two separate deletions of nearly _num1 . 
_num1 and _num1 . 
_num1 kb in the galns gene , including some exons . 
there are alu repetitive elements near the breakpoints of the _num1 . 
0-kb deletion , and this deletion resulted from an alu-alu recombination . 
the other _num1 . 
0-kb deletion involved illegitimate recombinational events between incomplete short direct repeats of _num1 bp at deletion breakpoints . 
the same rearrangement has been observed in a heteroallelic state in four unrelated patients . 
this is the first documentation of a common double deletion a gene that is not a member of a gene cluster . 
segregation analysis of a marker localised xp21.2-xp21 .3 in duchenne and becker muscular dystrophy families . 
a dna marker c7 , localised xp21 . 
1-xp21 . 
_num1 , has been studied in kindreds segregating for duchenne muscular dystrophy -lrb- dmd -rrb- and becker muscular dystrophy -lrb- bmd -rrb- . 
in dmd families four crossovers were observed in _num2 informative meioses between c7 and the dmd locus -lrb- theta = _num1 . 
_num2 , z max = + _num1 . 
_num2 -rrb- . 
in bmd families no recombinants were observed in the _num2 informative meioses studied . 
these data are consistent with the localisation of the mutations in these disorders being in the same region of xp21 . 
studies in families also segregating for the dna marker _num3 support the previously reported physical order of these loci as x centromere-754-dmd-bmd-c7-x telomere . 
a recombination fraction of _num1 . 
_num2 -lrb- z max = + _num1 . 
_num2 -rrb- was found between dmd-754 by combining our previously published data with the data presented here . 
c7 and _num3 thus provide good bridging markers for the diagnosis of dmd and bmd genetic analysis of the brca1 region in a large breast / ovarian family : refinement of the minimal region containing brca1 . 
we have analyzed a single multi-affected breast / ovarian cancer pedigree -lrb- bov3 -rrb- and have shown consistent inheritance of markers on chromosome 17q with the disease confirming that this family is due to the brca1 gene . 
analysis of 17q haplotypes shows a recombination event in a bilateral breast cancer case which suggests that the brca1 gene lies distal to d17s857 ; d17s857 is thus the new proximal boundary for the region containing brca1 . 
combining this information with previously published mapping information suggests that brca1 is contained in a region estimated at 1-1 . 
_num1 mb in length . 
all seven breast tumour / blood pairs examined from this family show loss of heterozygosity in the tumours . 
the allel retained in each tumour was from the disease-bearing chromosome implicating brca1 as a tumour suppressor gene . 
we have sequenced the _num2 beta-oestradiol dehydrogenase genes -lrb- edh17b1 and edh17b2 -rrb- which have been suggested as candidate genes for brca1 in four members of this family . 
no germline mutations were detected . 
a point mutation thr -lrb- _num3 -rrb- met on the alpha -lrb- _num1 -rrb- integrin leads to the formation of new human platelet alloantigen sit -lrb- a -rrb- and affects collagen-induced aggregation . 
a new platelet-specific alloantigen , termed sit -lrb- a -rrb- , was identified in a severe case of neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia . 
the sit -lrb- a -rrb- alloantigen is of low frequency -lrb- 1 / 400 -rrb- in the german population . 
immunochemical studies demonstrated that the sit -lrb- a -rrb- epitopes reside on platelet glycoprotein -lrb- gp -rrb- ia . 
nucleotide sequence analysis of gpia cdna derived from sit -lrb- a -rrb- - positive platelets showed c -lrb- _num4 -rrb- -- > t -lrb- _num4 -rrb- point mutation , resulting in thr -lrb- _num3 -rrb- met dimorphism . 
analysis of genomic dna from _num2 sit -lrb- a -rrb- - negative normal individuals showed that the thr -lrb- _num3 -rrb- is encoded by _ds -lrb- _num4 -rrb- -lrb- _num2 . 
_num1 % -rrb- or _ds -lrb- _num4 -rrb- -lrb- _num1 . 
_num1 % -rrb- . 
to establish a dna typing technique , we elucidated the organization of the gpia gene adjacent to the polymorphic bases . 
the introns -lrb- _num3 bp and _num1 . 
_num1 kb -rrb- encompass a 142-bp exon with the _num1 polymorphic bases _num4 and _num4 . 
polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis on dna derived from _num3 donors using the restriction enzyme mae iii showed that the met -lrb- _num3 -rrb- form of gpia is restricted to sit -lrb- a -rrb- -lrb- + -rrb- phenotype . 
analysis of stable chinese hamster ovary transfectants expressing allele-specific recombinant forms of gpia showed that anti-sit -lrb- a -rrb- exclusively reacted with the glu -lrb- _num3 -rrb- met -lrb- _num3 -rrb- , but not with the glu -lrb- _num3 -rrb- thr -lrb- _num3 -rrb- and the lys -lrb- _num3 -rrb- thr -lrb- _num3 -rrb- isoforms . 
in contrast , anti-br -lrb- a -rrb- -lrb- hpa-5b -rrb- only recognized the lys -lrb- _num3 -rrb- thr -lrb- _num3 -rrb- form , whereas anti-br -lrb- b -rrb- -lrb- hpa-5a -rrb- reacted with both glu -lrb- _num3 -rrb- thr -lrb- _num3 -rrb- and glu -lrb- _num3 -rrb- met -lrb- _num3 -rrb- isoforms . 
these results demonstrated that the met -lrb- _num3 -rrb- is responsible for formation of the sit -lrb- a -rrb- alloantigenic determinants , whereas amino acid _num3 -lrb- lys or glu -rrb- specifically controls the expression of br -lrb- a -rrb- and br -lrb- b -rrb- epitopes , respectively . 
platelet aggregation responses of sit -lrb- a -rrb- -lrb- + -rrb- individuals were diminished in response to collagen , indicating that the thr -lrb- _num3 -rrb- met mutation affects the function of the gpia / iia complex estimation of the male to female ratio of mutation rates from the segregation of x-chromosomal dna haplotypes in duchenne muscular dystrophy families . 
a novel procedure is presented to estimate the ratio of male to female mutation rates for duchenne muscular dystrophy -lrb- dmd -rrb- . 
x-specific restriction fragment length polymorphisms are used to establish dna haplotypes in three-generation dmd families . 
from the proportion of dmd patients who have inherited their maternal grandfathers x chromosome , the ratio of mutation rates can be calculated . 
in contrast to classical methods , the proposed procedure is not restricted to sporadic or familiar cases nor is any information on the carrier status of female relatives required . . 
genetic analysis of an inherited deficiency of the third component of complement in brittany spaniel dogs . 
genetically determined c3 deficiency in brittany spaniel dogs shares a number of biochemical and clinical characteristics with the human disorder . 
in humans , the gene for c3 deficiency is a null gene that is allelic to the structural gene for c3 and is not linked to the major histocompatibility locus . 
the current study used allotype analysis of canine c3 in order to demonstrate that the gene for c3 deficiency in these dogs is also a null gene allelic to the structural gene for c3 . 
in addition , preliminary pedigree analysis suggests that the gene for canine c3 deficiency is apparently not closely linked to the major histocompatibility complex of the dog . 
thus , it appears that c3 deficiency in brittany spaniel dogs not only shares biochemical and clinical features with c3 deficiency in humans , but also shares some genetic characteristics with the human disorder . . 
a novel frameshift mutation in the mcleod syndrome gene in a japanese family . 
we report a novel mutation in the xk gene -lrb- xk -rrb- in a japanese patient with mcleod syndrome . 
a 50-year-old man showed progressive muscular atrophy , choreic movement , elevated level of serum creatinine kinase , and acanthocytosis . 
the expression level of all the kell antigens in erythrocyte was decreased and molecular analysis revealed a single-base -lrb- t -rrb- deletion at the nucleotide position _num4 in xk . 
this deletion caused a frameshift in translation , leading to a premature stop codon at the amino acid position _num3 . 
we conclude this single-base deletion causes defective kx protein , which is responsible for the mcleod phenotype in this patient . . 
alpha-cardiac actin is a novel disease gene in familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy . 
we identified the alpha-cardiac actin gene -lrb- _ds -rrb- as a novel disease gene in a pedigree suffering from familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy -lrb- fhc -rrb- . 
linkage analyses excluded all the previously reported fhc loci as possible disease loci in the family studied , with lod scores varying between -2 . 
_num1 and -6 . 
_num1 _num1 . 
further linkage analyses of plausible candidate genes highly expressed in the adult human heart identified _ds as the most likely disease gene , showing a maximal lod score of _num1 . 
_num1 _num1 . 
mutation analysis of _ds revealed an ala295ser mutation in exon _num1 close to _num1 missense mutations recently described to cause the inherited form of idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy -lrb- idc -rrb- . 
the ews gene , involved in ewing family of tumors , malignant melanoma of soft parts and desmoplastic small round cell tumors , codes for an rna binding protein with novel regulatory domains . 
the ews gene , which maps to band _an of human chromosome _num2 , is involved in a wide variety of human solid tumors including ewing sarcoma , related primitive neuroectodermal tumors , malignant melanoma of soft parts and desmoplastic small round cell tumors . 
in these tumors , the ews is fused to genes encoding transcriptional activators / repressors , like fli-1 or erg or atf _num1 or wt1 . 
to better understand the function of the ews protein , we cloned the ews cdna . 
sequence analysis of this cdna revealed differential splicing involving two exons encoding _num2 amino acids . 
both alternatively spliced transcripts , ews and ews-b , are expressed in a variety of cells . 
because ews proteins contain putative conserved rna binding motifs , we studied the rna binding properties of the ews protein . 
the ews-b protein binds to rna in vitro and , specifically , to poly g and poly u . 
the rna binding activity was localized to the carboxy terminal _num2 amino acids , which constitute rgg box . 
thus the amino terminal domain of ews -lrb- ntd-ews -rrb- , which is involved in chromosome translocation may regulate the specificity of rna binding activity of ews . 
an ews-erg chimeric protein , which is found in ewings sarcoma cells , functions as a transcriptional activator . 
mutational analysis of ews-erg chimeric protein revealed that ntd-ews functions as a regulatory domain for the transcriptional activation properties of ews-erg chimeric protein . . 
a mutation common in non-jewish tay-sachs disease : frequency and rna studies . 
tay-sachs disease -lrb- tsd -rrb- is an autosomal recessive genetic disorder resulting from mutation of the hexa gene encoding the alpha-subunit of the lysosomal enzyme , beta-n-acetylhexosaminidase a -lrb- hex a -rrb- . 
we have discovered that a tay-sachs mutation , ivs-9 + _num1 g -- > a , first detected by akli et al. -lrb- genomics _num2 124-134 , _num4 -rrb- , is a common disease allele in non-jewish caucasians -lrb- 10 / 58 alleles examined -rrb- . 
a pcr-based diagnostic test , which detects an nlaiii site generated by the mutation , revealed a frequency among enzyme-defined carriers of 9 / 64 -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- . 
most of those carrying the allele trace their origins to the united kingdom , ireland , or western europe . 
it was not identified among _num2 black american tsd alleles or in any of _num2 ashkenazi jewish , enzyme-defined carriers who did not carry any of the mutations common to this population . 
no normally spliced rna was detected in pcr products generated from reverse transcription of rna carrying the ivs-9 mutation . 
instead , the low levels of mrna from this allele were comprised of aberrant species resulting from the use of either of two cryptic donor sites , one truncating exon _num1 and the other within ivs-9 , spliced to exon _num2 . 
numerous additional splice products were detected , most involving skipping of one or more surrounding exons . 
together with a recently identified allele responsible for hex a pseudodeficiency -lrb- triggs-raine et al. . 
am j hum genet , _num4 -rrb- , these two alleles accounted for almost _num2 % -lrb- 29 / 64 -rrb- of tsd or carrier alleles ascertained by enzyme screening tests in non-jewish caucasians . . 
characterization of the myotonic dystrophy region predicts multiple protein isoform-encoding mrnas . 
the mutation underlying myotonic dystrophy -lrb- dm -rrb- has been identified as an expansion of a polymorphic ctg-repeat in a gene encoding protein kinase activity . 
brain and heart transcripts of the dm-kinase -lrb- dmr-b15 -rrb- gene are subject to alternative rna splicing in both human and mouse . 
the unstable -lsb- _ds -rsb- 5-30 motif is found uniquely in humans , although the flanking nucleotides are also present in mouse . 
characterization of the dm region of both species reveals another active gene -lrb- dmr-n9 -rrb- in close proximity to the kinase gene . 
dmr-n9 transcripts , mainly expressed in brain and testis , possess a single , large open reading frame , but the function of its protein product is unknown . 
clinical manifestation of dm may be caused by the expanded ctg-repeat compromising the -lrb- alternative -rrb- expression of dm-kinase or dmr-n9 proteins . . 
paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria with coexisting deficiency of the ninth component of complement : lack of massive haemolytic attack . 
a 47-year-old woman with paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria -lrb- pnh -rrb- was found to have an inherited deficiency in the ninth complement component -lrb- c9 -rrb- . 
in complement-sensitivity lysis tests , _num2 % of her erythrocytes were markedly complement-sensitive -lrb- pnh-iii -rrb- . 
laser cytofluorimetry with a monoclonal antibody against decay-accelerating factor -lrb- daf -rrb- revealed that _num2 % of her erythrocytes were daf-negative . 
surprisingly , she has suffered only mild haemolysis and has never experienced massive spontaneous haemolysis . 
gross haemoglobinuria and jaundice occurred only after receiving postoperative transfusion of whole blood . 
in her serum , c9 was not detectable either by immunological or by functional assays . 
both the ham test and the sugar water test using normal human serum or plasma yielded marked haemolysis of the patients erythrocytes . 
when the patients serum or plasma was used , only a trace of lysis was detected . 
addition of purified human c9 to her plasma fully restored haemolysis . 
these observations indicated that c9 may play a critical role in haemolytic attacks in patients with pnh and that characteristic haemolysis in pnh may be tempered by coexisting c9 deficiency . . 
brca1 is associated with a human swi / snf-related complex : linking chromatin remodeling to breast cancer . 
germline mutations in the tumor suppressor gene , brca1 , predispose individuals to breast and ovarian cancers . 
using a combination of affinity - and conventional chromatographic techniques , we have isolated a predominant form of a multiprotein brca1-containing complex from human cells displaying chromatin-remodeling activity . 
mass spectrometric sequencing of components of this complex indicated that brca1 is associated with a swi / snf-related complex . 
we show that brca1 can directly interact with the brg1 subunit of the swi / snf complex . 
moreover , p53-mediated stimulation of transcription by brca1 was completely abrogated by either a dominant-negative mutant of brg1 or the cancer causing deletion in exon _num2 of brca1 . 
these findings reveal a direct function for brca1 in transcriptional control through modulation of chromatin structure . . 
germinal mosaicism in a duchenne muscular dystrophy family : implications for genetic counselling . 
in this study we describe a three-generation family in which two siblings were affected by duchenne muscular dystrophy -lrb- dmd -rrb- . 
immunohistochemical analysis of muscle dystrophin and haplotype analysis of the dmd locus revealed that the x chromosome carrying the dmd gene was transmitted from the healthy maternal grandfather to his three daughters , including the probands mother . 
these findings indicate that the grandfather was a germinal mosaic for the dmd gene . 
the definition of the carrier status in two possible carriers led us to give accurate genetic counselling and to prevent the birth of an affected boy . 
the results of this study demonstrate the usefulness of haplotype analysis and immunohistochemical muscle dystrophin studies to detect hidden germinal mosaicism and to improve genetic counselling . . 
centrosome amplification and a defective g2-m cell cycle checkpoint induce genetic instability in brca1 exon _num2 isoform-deficient cells . 
germline mutations of the brca1 tumor suppressor gene predispose women to breast and ovarian cancers . 
to study mechanisms underlying brca1-related tumorigenesis , we derived mouse embryonic fibroblast cells carrying a targeted deletion of exon _num2 of the brca1 gene . 
we show that the mutant cells maintain an intact g1-s cell cycle checkpoint and proliferate poorly . 
however , a defective g2-m checkpoint in these cells is accompanied by extensive chromosomal abnormalities . 
mutant fibroblasts contain multiple , functional centrosomes , which lead to unequal chromosome segregation , abnormal nuclear division , and aneuploidy . 
these data uncover an essential role of brca1 in maintaining genetic stability through the regulation of centrosome duplication and the g2-m checkpoint and provide a molecular basis for the role of brca1 in tumorigenesis . . 
aberrant splicing of phenylalanine hydroxylase mrna : the major cause for phenylketonuria in parts of southern europe . 
we report a mutation within the phenylalanine hydroxylase -lrb- pah -rrb- gene that causes aberrant splicing of the mrna and that is in tight association with chromosomal haplotypes _num1 , _num2 , and _num2 . 
because of the high frequency of these particular haplotypes in bulgaria , italy , and turkey , it appears to be one of the more frequent defects in the pah gene causing classical phenylketonuria in this part of europe . 
the mutation is a g to a transition at position _num3 in intron _num2 of the pah gene , _num2 bp upstream from the intron 10 / exon _num2 boundary . 
it activates a cryptic splice site and results in an in-frame insertion of _num1 nucleotides between exon _num2 and exon _num2 of the processed mrna . 
normal amounts of liver pah protein are present in homozygous patients , but no catalytic activity can be detected . 
this loss of enzyme activity is probably caused by conformational changes resulting from the insertion of three additional amino acids -lrb- gly-leu-gln -rrb- between the normal sequences encoded by exon _num2 and exon _num2 . . 
biochemical and structural analysis of missense mutations in n-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfate sulfatase causing mucopolysaccharidosis iva phenotypes . 
mucopolysaccharidosis iva -lrb- mps iva ; omim # _num6 -rrb- , a lysosomal storage disorder caused by a deficiency of n -acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfate sulfatase -lrb- galns -rrb- , has variable clinical phenotypes . 
to date we have identified _num2 missense mutations in the galns gene from mps iva patients , but the correlation between genotype and phenotype has remained unclear . 
we studied _num2 missense mutations using biochemical approaches and _num2 missense mutations , using structural analyses . 
fifteen missense mutations and two newly engineered active site mutations -lrb- c79s , c79t -rrb- were characterized by transient expression analysis . 
mutant proteins , except for c79s and c79t , were destabilized and detected as insoluble precursor forms while the c79s and c79t mutants were of a soluble mature size . 
mutants found in the severe phenotype had no activity . 
mutants found in the mild phenotype had a considerable residual activity -lrb- _num1 . 
3-13 . 
_num1 % of wild-type galns activity -rrb- . 
sulfatases , including galns , are members of a highly conserved gene family sharing an extensive sequence homology . 
thus , a tertiary structural model of human galns was constructed from the x-ray crystal structure of n - acetylgalacto-samine-4-sulfatase and arylsulfatase a , using homology modeling , and _num2 missense mutations were investigated . 
consequently , we propose that there are at least three different reasons for the severe phenotype -lrb- i -rrb- destruction of the hydrophobic core or modification of the packing ; -lrb- ii -rrb- removal of a salt bridge to destabilize the entire conformation ; -lrb- iii -rrb- modification of the active site . 
in contrast , mild mutations were mostly located on the surface of the galns protein . 
these studies shed further light on the genotype-phenotype correlation of mps iva and structure-function relationship in the sulfatase family . 
wiskott-aldrich syndrome : cellular impairments and their implication for carrier detection . 
a family in which two male siblings were affected with wiskott-aldrich syndrome -lrb- was -rrb- was studied using g-6-pd isoenzymes as an x-linked marker in order to investigate the nature of cellular abnormalities . 
isolated peripheral blood cell types from the doubly heterozygous mother of the affected males seemingly failed to express the g-6-pd allele in cis position with the was allele while her cultured skin fibroblasts expressed both g-6-pd alleles . 
additionally , a histogram analysis of platelet size revealed a single population of abnormally small platelets in the affected propositus , whereas the heterozygous mother had no appreciable small platelet subpopulation . 
in vitro culture of hemopoietic progenitor cells of the heterozygous mother showed that the majority of progenitor cells did not express the was allele . 
however , a small number of cells expressing the g-6-pd type linked with the was allele were detected . 
the proportion of the latter progenitors was significantly higher among more primitive progenitors -lrb- those giving rise to later appearing colonies -rrb- . 
this observation suggests that selection against cells expressing the wiskott-aldrich defect takes place in the hemopoietic system of the heterozygous female and offers a possible means of carrier detection in some women . 
linkage studies in this family revealed one example of probable recombination between the loci for was and g-6-pd among three informative subjects , suggesting that these two loci may not be closely linked on the x-chromosome . . 
familial deficiency of the seventh component of complement associated with recurrent meningococcal infections . 
we describe an 11-year-old girl suffering from recurrent meningitis with a complete absence of the seventh component of complement -lrb- c7 -rrb- . 
diagnosis was established by haemolytic titration and western blotting . 
the patients serum lacked the _num2 kda c7 chain . 
haemolytic activity of serum was reconstituted with either pooled normal human serum or with purified c7 . 
the relatives -lrb- parents and one sister -rrb- had half-normal levels of both immunochemically and functionally determined c7 , indicating a heterozygous state for c7 deficiency . . 
non-syndromic hearing loss associated with enlarged vestibular aqueduct is caused by pds mutations . 
enlarged vestibular aqueduct -lrb- eva -rrb- , known as the most common form of inner ear abnormality , has recently been of particular genetic interest because this anomaly is inherited in a recessive manner . 
the locus for non-syndromic sensorineural hearing loss with eva has been mapped to the same chromosomal region , 7q31 , as the pendred syndrome locus . 
in the present study , seven mutations in the pds gene -lrb- pds -rrb- , the gene responsible for pendred syndrome , have been found in families of non-syndromic sensorineural hearing loss with eva . 
one family is homozygous , three families are compound heterozygotes , and two families are heterozygous but with no other mutation detected . 
the present results provide evidence that mutations in pds cause both syndromic and non-syndromic hearing loss . . 
deletions of a dna sequence in retinoblastomas and mesenchymal tumors : organization of the sequence and its encoded protein . 
retinoblastoma is a childhood tumor that can arise because of mutant alleles acquired as somatic or germinal mutations . 
the mutant allele can be carried in the germ line . 
the mutations creating these alleles act by inactivating copies of a recessive oncogene located within band _an of chromosome _num2 and termed the rb1 locus . 
we have reported isolation of a cdna fragment that recognizes chromosomal sequences possessing many of the attributes of the retinoblastoma gene associated with the rb1 locus . 
we now report that this segment is additionally the target of somatic mutations in mesenchymal tumors among patients having no apparent predisposition to retinoblastoma and no previous evidence of retinoblastoma . 
these tumors provide additional evidence that the cloned sequences are representative of a gene that is a frequent target of inactivation during tumorigenesis . 
sequence analysis of this cdna provides little insight into its normal functional role . . 
genetically determined low c4 : a predisposing factor to autoimmune chronic active hepatitis . 
of _num2 patients with autoimmune chronic active hepatitis -lrb- cah -rrb- starting in childhood _num2 -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- had low c4 and _num1 -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- had low c3 serum levels . 
impaired hepatic synthesis and immune-consumption were unlikely since transferrin levels were normal in all patients , albumin levels were persistently low in only _num1 , and only _num1 had raised levels of activation fragment c3d . 
c4d was normal in all patients studied . 
in the families of _num2 probands with low c4 , _num1 parents had low c4 and _num1 had levels which were at the lower limit of normal . 
_num1 of _num2 siblings from _num1 families had low c4 . 
these results suggest that low c4 levels in cah are genetically determined . 
c4 phenotyping in _num2 patients and in _num2 parents showed that _num2 % and _num2 % , respectively , had null allotypes at either the c4a or c4b locus compared with _num2 % in controls , indicating that defective expression of structural genes may contribute to the observed c4 deficiency . . 
tight linkage between myotonic dystrophy and apolipoprotein e genes revealed with allele-specific oligonucleotides . 
in _num2 families with myotonic dystrophy -lrb- dm -rrb- a novel approach based on use of allele-specific oligonucleotides has been employed to study the linkage relationship between the apolipoprotein e -lrb- apoe -rrb- gene and dm . 
synthetic oligonucleotides , designed to discriminate between apoe alleles epsilon _num1 and epsilon _num1 , enabled us to distinguish heterozygous carriers in a hybridization assay . 
in a subset of families , the relevant segment of the apoe gene was enzymatically amplified to increase the sensitivity of the method . 
for dm and apoe , a maximum lod score -lrb- zmax of _num1 . 
_num2 was obtained at a recombination frequency -lrb- theta -rrb- of _num1 . 
_num3 -lrb- male theta = female theta -rrb- . 
no recombination -lrb- maximum lod score of _num1 . 
_num2 at theta = _num1 . 
_num1 -rrb- was found between apoe and the apolipoprotein cii -lrb- apoc2 -rrb- gene . 
these results suggest that , in addition to apoc2 , apoe is a useful marker for presymptomatic dm diagnosis . 
confirmation of brca1 by analysis of germline mutations linked to breast and ovarian cancer in ten families . 
we provide genetic evidence supporting the identity of the candidate gene for brca1 through the characterization of germline mutations in _num2 breast cancer patients and _num2 ovarian cancer patients in ten families with cancer linked to chromosome 17q21 . 
nine different mutations were detected by screening brca1 dna and rna by single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis and direct sequencing . 
seven mutations lead to protein truncations at sites throughout the gene . 
one missense mutation -lrb- which occurred independently in two families -rrb- leads to loss of a cysteine in the zinc binding domain . 
an intronic single basepair substitution destroys an acceptor site and activates a cryptic splice site , leading to a _num2 basepair insertion and chain termination . 
the four families with both breast and ovarian cancer had chain termination mutations in the n-terminal half of the protein . . 
genetic instability in human ovarian cancer cell lines . 
we have analyzed the stability of microsatellites in cell lines derived from human ovarian cancers and found that _num1 out of _num2 of the ovarian tumor cell lines are genetically unstable at the majority of the loci analyzed . 
in clones and subclones derived serially from one of these cell lines -lrb- _num4 ; serous cystadenocarcinoma -rrb- , a very high proportion of microsatellites distributed in many different regions of the genome change their size in a mercurial fashion . 
we conclude that genomic instability in ovarian tumors is a dynamic and ongoing process whose high frequency may have been previously underestimated by pcr-based allelotyping of bulk tumor tissue . 
we have identified the source of the genetic instability in one ovarian tumor as a point mutation -lrb- r524p -rrb- in the human mismatch-repair gene msh2 -lrb- salmonella muts homologue -rrb- , which has recently been shown to be involved in hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer . 
patient _num4 was a 38-year-old heterozygote , and her normal tissue carried both mutant and wild-type alleles of the human msh2 gene . 
however the wild-type allele was lost at some point early during tumorigenesis so that dna isolated either from the patients ovarian tumor or from the _num4 cell line carries only the mutant allele of the human msh2 gene . 
the genetic instability observed in the tumor and cell line dna , together with the germ-line mutation in a mismatch-repair gene , suggest that the msh2 gene is involved in the onset and / or progression in a subset of ovarian cancer . . 
retroviral-mediated gene transfer of human phenylalanine hydroxylase into nih 3t3 and hepatoma cells . 
phenylketonuria -lrb- pku -rrb- is caused by deficiency of the hepatic enzyme phenylalanine hydroxylase -lrb- pah -rrb- . 
a full-length human pah cdna sequence has been inserted into pzip-neosv -lrb- x -rrb- , which is a retroviral vector containing the bacterial neo gene . 
the recombinant has been transfected into psi _num1 cells , which provide synthesis of the retroviral capsid . 
recombinant virus was detected in the culture medium of the transfected psi _num1 cells , which is capable of transmitting the human pah gene into mouse nih 3t3 cells by infection leading to stable incorporation of the recombinant provirus . 
infected cells express pah mrna , immunoreactive pah protein , and exhibit pterin-dependent phenylalanine hydroxylase activity . 
the recombinant virus is also capable of infecting a mouse hepatoma cell line that does not normally synthesize pah . 
pah activity is present in the cellular extracts and the entire hydroxylation system is reconstituted in the hepatoma cells infected with the recombinant viruses . 
thus , recombinant viruses containing human pah cdna provide a means for introducing functional pah into mammalian cells of hepatic origin and can potentially be introduced into whole animals as a model for somatic gene therapy for pku . . 
characterisation of molecular defects in x-linked amelogenesis imperfecta -lrb- aih1 -rrb- . 
amelogenins are an heterogenous family of proteins produced by ameloblasts of the enamel organ during tooth development . 
disturbances of enamel formation occur in amelogenesis imperfecta , a clinically heterogenous group of inherited disorders characterised by defective enamel biomineralisation . 
an amelogenin gene , amgx , has been mapped to the short of the x chromosome -lrb- xp22 . 
1-p22 . 
_num1 -rrb- and has been implicated in the molecular pathology of x-linked amelogenesis imperfecta -lrb- aih1 -rrb- . 
we have identified three families exhibiting aih1 and screened the amgx gene for mutations using single-strand conformational polymorphism analysis and dna sequencing . 
three novel mutations were identified a c-t substitution in exon _num1 , and a g-t substitution and single cytosine deletion in exon _num1 , confirming the existence of extensive allelic heterogeneity in this condition . 
the identification of family-specific mutations will enable early identification of affected individuals and correlation of clinical phenotype with genotype will facilitate an objective system of disease classification . 
the pendred syndrome gene encodes a chloride-iodide transport protein . 
pendred syndrome is the most common form of syndromic deafness and characterized by congenital sensorineural hearing loss and goitre . 
this disorder was mapped to chromosome _num1 and the gene causing pendred syndrome -lrb- pds -rrb- was subsequently identified by positional cloning . 
pds encodes a putative transmembrane protein designated pendrin . 
pendrin is closely related to a family of sulfate transport proteins that includes the rat sulfate-anion transporter -lrb- encoded by sat-1 ; _num2 % amino acid sequence identity -rrb- , the human diastrophic dysplasia sulfate transporter -lrb- encoded by dtd ; _num2 % -rrb- and the human sulfate transporter downregulated in adenoma -lrb- encoded by dra ; _num2 % -rrb- . 
on the basis of this homology and the presence of a slightly modified sulfate-transporter signature sequence comprising its putative second transmembrane domain , pendrin has been proposed to function as a sulfate transporter . 
we were unable to detect evidence of sulfate transport following the expression of pendrin in xenopus laevis oocytes by microinjection of pds crna or in sf9 cells following infection with pds-recombinant baculovirus . 
the rates of transport for iodide and chloride were significantly increased following the expression of pendrin in both cell systems . 
our results demonstrate that pendrin functions as a transporter of chloride and iodide , but not sulfate , and may provide insight into thyroid physiology and the pathophysiology of pendred syndrome . . 
linkage relationship of c2 deficiency , hla and glyoxalase i loci . 
immunogenetic analysis of a homozygous c2-deficient individual and family members demonstrated linkage of hla-a25 , _an and c2o . 
hla-d typing showed that _num1 members typed with homozygous dw2 typing cells from an individual with c2 deficiency but not with dw2 typing cells from _num1 individuals with normal c2 . 
the homozygous c2-deficient propositus and brother were hla-a and b homozygous but heterozygous at the hla-d and glyoxalase i loci . 
therefore , in this family , the c2o gene is linked with two distinct haplotypes hla-a25 , _an , dw2 , glo1 and hla-a25 , _an , d unknown , gl02 . 
these results could be explained by an ancestral recombinant event , which occurred between the c2o locus and hla-d locus in which c2o segregated with hla-b . 
this would suggest that the locus for the c2o gene maps between hla-b and hla-d on the sixth chromosome . . 
a 71-kilodalton protein is a major product of the duchenne muscular dystrophy gene in brain and other nonmuscle tissues . 
the known duchenne muscular dystrophy -lrb- dmd -rrb- gene products , the muscle - and brain-type dystrophin isoforms , are 427-kda proteins translated from 14-kilobase -lrb- kb -rrb- mrnas . 
recently we described a _num1 . 
5-kb mrna that also is transcribed from the dmd gene . 
cloning and in vitro transcription and translation of the entire coding region show that the _num1 . 
5-kb mrna encodes a _num2 . 
8-kda protein that is a major product of the dmd gene . 
it contains the c-terminal and the cysteine-rich domains of dystrophin , seven additional amino acids at the n terminus , and some modifications formed by alternative splicing in the c-terminal domain . 
it lacks the entire large domain of spectrin-like repeats and the actin-binding n-terminal domain of dystrophin . 
this protein is the major dmd gene product in brain and other nonmuscle tissues but is undetectable in skeletal muscle extracts . 
histidinemia . 
classical and atypical form in siblings . 
two brothers , _num1 and _num2 years old , had histidinemia . 
on the basis of clinical and biochemical observations , the younger boy was considered to have a classical type of the disease , while the older boy had an atypical form characterized by partial impairment of the skin histidase activity and a moderately prolonged half-life of blood histidine . 
the mother is a heterozygous carrier , while the father and sister seem to be normal . . 
hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase deficiency : analysis of hprt mutations by direct sequencing and allele-specific amplification . 
the lesch-nyhan syndrome is a severe x chromosome-linked human disease caused by a virtual absence of hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase -lrb- hprt -rrb- activity . 
a partial deficiency in the activity of this enzyme can result in gouty arthritis . 
to determine the genetic basis for reduction or loss of enzyme activity , we have amplified and sequenced the coding region of hprt cdna from four patients one with lesch-nyhan syndrome -lrb- hprtperth -rrb- and three with partial deficiencies of hprt activity , which have been designated hprturangan , hprtswan and hprttoowong . 
in all four patients , the only mutation identified was a single base substitution in exons _num1 or _num1 of the coding region , which in each case predicts a single amino acid substitution in the translated protein . 
each base change was confirmed by allele-specific amplification of the patients genomic dna . 
it is interesting to note that the mutation found for hprtperth is identical to that reported for hprtflint . 
it appears that the two mutations are de novo events . . 
sjogren-larsson syndrome . 
impaired fatty alcohol oxidation in cultured fibroblasts due to deficient fatty alcohol : nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide oxidoreductase activity . 
lipid metabolism was studied in cultured skin fibroblasts from patients with the inherited disorder , sjogren-larsson syndrome -lrb- sls -rrb- . 
intact sls fibroblasts incubated in the presence of -lsb- 1-14c -rsb- palmitate accumulated more radioactive hexadecanol than did normal cells , whereas incorporation of radioactivity into other cellular lipids was unaltered . 
the hexadecanol content of sls fibroblasts was abnormally elevated . 
hexadecanol accumulation was not due to increased fatty alcohol synthesis nor its deficient utilization for glycerol ether synthesis . 
the half-life of intracellular hexadecanol loaded into sls fibroblasts was increased -lrb- _num2 min -rrb- compared with normal -lrb- _num2 min -rrb- , and intact sls fibroblasts showed impaired oxidation of -lsb- 14c -rsb- - hexadecanol to fatty acid . 
fatty alcohol nad + oxidoreductase , the enzyme catalyzing this reaction , was deficient in sls fibroblasts . 
mean total activity in sls fibroblasts -lrb- n = _num1 -rrb- was _num2 % of that in normal fibroblasts , and palmitoyl coa-inhibitable activity was _num1 % of normal . 
fibroblasts from two obligate sls heterozygotes had enzyme activities intermediate between that in normal fibroblasts and individuals with sls . 
these results suggest that the primary defect in sls is deficiency of fatty alcohol nad + oxidoreductase . 
sls represents the first inherited disorder in man associated with an isolated abnormality in fatty alcohol metabolism . . 
glycerol as a correlate of impaired glucose tolerance : dissection of a complex system by use of a simple genetic trait . 
glycerol kinase -lrb- gk -rrb- represents the primary entry of glycerol into glucose and triglyceride metabolism . 
impaired glucose tolerance -lrb- igt -rrb- and hypertriglyceridemia are associated with an increased risk of diabetes mellitus and cardiovascular disease . 
the relationship between glycerol and the risk of igt , however , is poorly understood . 
we therefore undertook the study of fasting plasma glycerol levels in a cohort of _num1 , _num3 unrelated men and women of french-canadian descent . 
family screening in the initial cohort identified _num2 men from five families with severe hyperglycerolemia -lrb- values above _num1 . 
_num1 mmol / liter -rrb- and demonstrated an x-linked pattern of inheritance . 
linkage analysis of the data from _num2 microsatellite markers surrounding the xp21 . 
_num1 gk gene resulted in a peak lod score of _num1 . 
_num2 , centered around marker dxs8039 . 
in addition , since all of the families originated in a population with a proven founder effect-the saguenay lac-st . 
- jean region of quebec-a common disease haplotype was sought . 
indeed , a six-marker haplotype extending over a region of _num1 . 
_num1 cm was observed in all families . 
resequencing of the gk gene in family members led to the discovery of a n288d missense mutation in exon _num2 , which resulted in the substitution of a highly conserved asparagine residue by a negatively charged aspartic acid . 
assignment of the aspartylglucosaminidase gene -lrb- _ds -rrb- to 4q33 -- _an based on decreased activity in a girl with a _num2 , xx , del -lrb- _num1 -rrb- -lrb- _an -rrb- karyotype . 
aspartylglucosaminuria -lrb- agu -rrb- is a recessive autosomally inherited lysosomal storage disorder due to deficiency of the enzyme aspartylglucosaminidase -lrb- _ds -rrb- . 
the structural gene for this human enzyme -lrb- _ds -rrb- has been assigned to the region 4q21 -- qter . 
we determined the _ds activity in cultured fibroblasts of a girl with a _num2 , xx , del -lrb- _num1 -rrb- -lrb- _an -rrb- karyotype . 
the results indicate that the girl is a hemizygote for _ds , permitting the assignment of human _ds to the region 4q33 -- qter . . 
mutations in the fibrinogen aalpha gene account for the majority of cases of congenital afibrinogenemia . 
congenital afibrinogenemia is a rare , autosomal , recessive disorder characterized by the complete absence of detectable fibrinogen . 
we previously identified the first causative mutations in a nonconsanguineous swiss family ; the _num1 affected persons have homozygous deletions of approximately _num2 kb of the fibrinogen alpha -lrb- fga -rrb- gene . 
haplotype data implied that these deletions occurred on distinct ancestral chromosomes , suggesting that this region may be susceptible to deletion by a common mechanism . 
we subsequently showed that all the deletions were identical to the base pair and probably resulted from a nonhomologous recombination mediated by 7-bp direct repeats . 
in this study , we have collected data on _num2 additional unrelated patients to identify the causative mutations and to determine the prevalence of the 11-kb deletion . 
a common recurrent mutation , at the donor splice site of fga intron _num1 -lrb- ivs4 + _num1 g > t -rrb- , accounted for _num2 of the _num2 -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- alleles . 
one patient was heterozygous for the previously identified deletion . 
three more frameshift mutations , _num1 nonsense mutations , and a second splice site mutation were also identified . 
consequently , _num2 % of afibrinogenemia alleles analyzed to date have truncating mutations of fga , though mutations in all _num1 fibrinogen genes , fgg , fga , and fgb , might be predicted to cause congenital afibrinogenemia . . 
utilization of purines by an hprt variant in an intelligent , nonmutilative patient with features of the lesch-nyhan syndrome . 
the patient , h. chr . 
b. , was among the first reported with hyperuricemia and central nervous system symptoms . 
he has been found to have a variant of hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyl transferase -lrb- hprt ; e. c. _num1 . 
_num1 . 
_num1 . 
_num1 -rrb- distinct from the enzyme present in patients with the lesch-nyhan syndrome . 
the patient had chroeoathetosis , spasticity , dysarthric speech , and hyperuricemia . 
however , his intelligence was normal and he had no evidence of self-mutilation . 
there was no activity of hprt in the lysates of erythrocytes and cultured fibroblasts when analyzed in the usual manner . 
using a newly developed method for the study of purine metabolism in intact cultured cells , this patient was found to metabolize some _num1 % of 8-14c-hypoxanthine , and _num2 % of the isotope utilized was converted to adenine and guanine nucleotides . 
in contrast , cells from patients with the lesch-nyhan syndrome were virtually completely unable to convert hypoxanthine to nucleotides . 
the patients fibroblasts were even more efficient in the metabolism of 8-14c-guanine , which was utilized to the extent of _num2 % , over _num2 % of which was converted to guanine and adenine nucleotides . 
the growth of the cultured fibroblasts of this patient was intermediate in media containing hypoxanthine aminopterin thymidine -lrb- hat -rrb- , whereas the growth of lesch-nyhan cells was inhibited and normal cells grew normally . 
similarly in 8-azaguanine , 6-thioguanine , and 8-azahypoxanthine , the growth of the patients cells was intermediate between normal and lesch-nyhan cells . 
these observations provide further evidence for genetic heterogeneity among patients with disorders in purine metabolism involving the hprt gene . 
they document that this famous patient did not have the lesch-nyhan syndrome canavan disease : mutations among jewish and non-jewish patients . 
canavan disease is an autosomal recessive leukodystrophy caused by the deficiency of aspartoacylase -lrb- aspa -rrb- . 
sixty-four probands were analyzed for mutations in the aspa gene . 
three point mutations -- 693c -- > a , 854a -- > c , and 914c -- > a -- were identified in the coding sequence . 
the 693c -- > a and 914c -- > a base changes , resulting in nonsense tyr231 -- > ter and missense ala305 -- > glu mutations , respectively , lead to complete loss of aspa activity in in vitro expression studies . 
the 854a -- > c transversion converted glu to ala in codon _num3 . 
the glu285 -- > ala mutant aspa has _num1 . 
_num1 % of the activity expressed by the wild-type enzyme . 
a fourth mutation , _num3 -- _num1 -lrb- a -- > g -rrb- transition , was identified at the splice-acceptor site in intron _num1 . 
the splice-site mutation would lead to skipping of exon _num1 , accompanied by a frameshift , and thus would produce aberrant aspa . 
of the _num3 unrelated canavan chromosomes analyzed , _num2 were from probands of ashkenazi jewish descent . 
the glu285 -- > ala mutation was predominant -lrb- _num2 . 
_num1 % -rrb- in this population , followed by the tyr231 -- > ter -lrb- _num2 . 
_num1 % -rrb- and _num3 -- _num1 -lrb- a -- > g -rrb- -lrb- _num1 . 
_num1 % -rrb- mutations . 
the three mutations account for _num2 . 
_num1 % of the canavan chromosomes of ashkenazi jewish origin . 
the ala305 -- > glu mutation was found exclusively in non-jewish probands of european descent and constituted _num2 % of the _num2 mutant chromosomes . 
predominant occurrence of certain mutations among ashkenazi jewish and non-jewish patients with canavan disease would suggest a founding-father effect in propagation of these mutant chromosomes identification of deletion mutations and three new genes at the familial polyposis locus . 
small -lrb- 100-260 kb -rrb- , nested deletions were characterized in dna from two unrelated patients with familial adenomatous polyposis coli -lrb- apc -rrb- . 
three candidate genes located within the deleted region were ascertained and a previous candidate gene , mcc , was shown to be located outside the deleted region . 
one of the new genes contained sequence identical to srp19 , the gene coding for the _num2 kd component of the ribosomal signal recognition particle . 
the second , provisionally designated dp1 -lrb- deleted in polyposis _num1 -rrb- , was found to be transcribed in the same orientation as mcc . 
two other cdnas , dp2 and dp3 , were found to overlap , forming a single gene , dp2 . 
_num1 , that is transcribed in the same orientation as srp19 . 
genotype-phenotype correlations in families with deletions in the von hippel-lindau -lrb- vhl -rrb- gene . 
von hippel-lindau -lrb- vhl -rrb- disease is a hereditary tumor syndrome characterized by predisposition for bilateral and multi-centric hemangioblastoma in the retina and central nervous system , pheochromocytoma , renal cell carcinoma , and cysts in the kidney , pancreas , and epididymis . 
we describe five families for which direct sequencing of the coding region of the vhl gene had failed to identify the family-specific mutation . 
further molecular analysis revealed deletions involving the vhl gene in each of these families . 
in four families , partial deletions of one or more exons were detected by southern blot analysis . 
in the fifth family , fish analysis demonstrated the deletion of the entire vhl gene . 
our results show that -lrb- quantitative -rrb- southern blot analysis is a sensitive method for detecting germline deletions of the vhl gene and should be implemented in routine dna diagnosis for vhl disease . 
our data support the previously established observation that families with a germline deletion have a low risk for pheochromocytoma . 
further unraveling of genotype-phenotype correlations in vhl disease has revealed that families with a full or partial deletion of the vhl gene exhibit a phenotype with a preponderance of central nervous system hemangioblastoma . . 
understanding the molecular basis of fragile x syndrome . 
fragile x syndrome , a common form of inherited mental retardation , is mainly caused by massive expansion of _ds triplet repeats located in the 5-untranslated region of the fragile x mental retardation -lrb- fmr1 -rrb- gene . 
in patients with fragile x syndrome , the expanded _ds triplet repeats are hypermethylated and the expression of the fmr1 gene is repressed , which leads to the absence of fmr1 protein -lrb- fmrp -rrb- and subsequent mental retardation . 
fmrp is an rna-binding protein that shuttles between the nucleus and cytoplasm . 
this protein has been implicated in protein translation as it is found associated with polyribosomes and the rough endoplasmic reticulum . 
we discuss here the recent progress made towards understanding the molecular mechanism of _ds repeat expansion and physiological function -lrb- s -rrb- of fmrp . 
these studies will not only help to illuminate the molecular basis of the general class of human diseases with trinucleotide repeat expansion but also provide an avenue to understand aspects of human cognition and intelligence . . 
glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency in papua new guinea . 
the description of _num2 new variants . 
a total of _num3 males from various regions of papua new guinea were screened for red cell glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase -lrb- g6pd -rrb- activity . 
twenty-six g6pd deficient individuals were identified . 
biochemical characterization of g6pd purified from these subjects has revealed _num2 new variants and several copies of previously described forms of g6pd . 
this study illustrates the extreme heterogeneity of g6pd deficiency among the people of papua new guinea . . 
regional mapping of the phenylalanine hydroxylase gene and the phenylketonuria locus in the human genome . 
phenylketonuria -lrb- pku -rrb- is an autosomal recessive disorder of amino acid metabolism caused by a deficiency of the hepatic enzyme phenylalanine hydroxylase -lrb- pah ; phenylalanine 4-monooxygenase , ec _num1 . 
_num2 . 
_num2 . 
_num1 -rrb- . 
a cdna clone for human pah has previously been used to assign the corresponding gene to human chromosome _num2 . 
to define the regional map position of the disease locus and the pah gene on human chromosome _num2 , dna was isolated from human-hamster somatic cell hybrids with various deletions of human chromosome _num2 and was analyzed by southern blot analysis using the human cdna pah clone as a hybridization probe . 
from these results , together with detailed biochemical and cytogenetic characterization of the hybrid cells , the region on chromosome _num2 containing the human pah gene has been defined as 12q14 . 
_num1 -- qter _num1 -- qter . 
the pah map position on chromosome _num2 was further localized by in situ hybridization of 125i-labeled human pah cdna to chromosomes prepared from a human lymphoblastoid cell line . 
results of these experiments demonstrated that the region on chromosome _num2 containing the pah gene and the pku locus in man is 12q22 -- 12q24 . 
_num1 . 
these results not only provide a regionalized map position for a major human disease locus but also can serve as a reference point for linkage analysis with other dna markers on human chromosome _num2 total deficiency of plasma cholesteryl ester transfer protein in subjects homozygous and heterozygous for the intron _num2 splicing defect . 
the molecular basis of cholesteryl ester transfer protein -lrb- cetp -rrb- deficiency was investigated in _num1 unrelated cetp-deficient families . 
the high density lipoprotein-cholesterol levels of the probands exceeded _num3 mg / dl . 
the plasma of the probands was totally deficient in cetp activity and mass . 
the genomic dna of the patients was amplified by polymerase chain reaction , using two oligonucleotide primers located in the intron _num2 and _num2 of the cetp gene , and the amplified products were directly sequenced . 
two patients were homozygous for a g-to-a change at the 5-splice donor site of the intron _num2 . 
the g-to-a change would cause impaired splicing of pre-messenger rna . 
the other two probands were heterozygous for the mutation , but totally lacked cetp . 
their lipoprotein patterns were also similar to those of the two homozygotes . 
thus , other genetic defects or metabolic factors influencing cetp expression are implicated . 
the data suggest that the g-to-a mutation may be common in human plasma cetp deficiency . 
furthermore , there could be compound heterozygotes who totally lack plasma cetp and have lipoprotein profiles similar to those of homozygotes . . 
heterogeneity of type i von willebrand disease : evidence for a subgroup with an abnormal von willebrand factor . 
type i von willebrand disease -lrb- vwd -rrb- is characterized by equally low plasma concentrations of von willebrand factor antigen -lrb- vwf ag -rrb- and ristocetin cofactor -lrb- ricof -rrb- and by the presence of all vwf multimers in sodium dodecyl sulfate -lrb- sds -rrb- - agarose gel electrophoresis . 
for _num2 patients -lrb- _num2 kindreds -rrb- diagnosed with these criteria , we have studied the platelet contents of vwf ag and ricof and the changes of these in plasma after ddavp infusion . 
platelet vwf ag and ricof were normal in four kindreds -lrb- called '' platelet normal '' subgroup -rrb- ; following 1-deamino-8-d-arginine vasopressin ; plasma vwf ag , ricof and the bleeding time -lrb- bt -rrb- became normal . 
in six kindreds , platelet vwf ag and ricof were equally low -lrb- platelet low -rrb- ; after ddavp , plasma vwf ag and ricof remained low , and the bt was prolonged . 
in three additional kindreds , platelets contained normal concentrations of vwf ag , but ricof was very low -lrb- platelet discordant -rrb- ; even though a complete set of multimers was found in plasma and platelets , there was a relatively small amount of large multimers . 
after ddavp , plasma vwf ag became normal , but ricof remained low and the bt was very prolonged . 
these findings demonstrated that there can be an abnormal vwf -lrb- ricof less than vwf ag -rrb- even in type i vwd , coexisting with a complete set of vwf multimers -lrb- platelet discordant -rrb- ; that the abnormal vwf can be shown more clearly in platelets than in plasma or else in plasma after ddavp infusion ; and that ddavp normalizes the bt only in those patients with normal platelet levels of both vwf ag and ricof -lrb- platelet normal -rrb- . . 
characterization of a yac containing part or all of the norrie disease locus . 
it has been shown from pulsed-field gel electrophoresis -lrb- pfge -rrb- that the monoamine oxidase genes a and b -lrb- maoa & maob -rrb- and dxs7 loci are physically very close . 
we have therefore extended studies on their relationship through the characterisation of a _num3 kb yac isolated using l1 . 
_num2 -lrb- recognising the dxs7 locus -rrb- as a probe . 
restriction mapping of the yac indicates that it contains both maoa and maob genes in addition to the dxs7 locus . 
the map derived from the yl1 . 
28-yac is compatible both with the map from an independently derived yac carrying maoa and b genes and with the long range genomic map for the region . 
a series of subclones prepared from a phage library -lrb- lambda dash ii -rrb- of the yac have been characterised and have been employed to determine the end point of the deletion of a norrie disease -lrb- ndp -rrb- patient who has been shown to lack both dxs7 and mao coding sequences . 
the pattern of retention of subclones in the deletion patient place the end point of the deletion within 30-130 kb of the proximal end of the yac . 
by combining the data with established recombination analysis , we provide evidence that all or part of the ndp lies in the interval of approximately 250kb within the yac . 
identification of mutations in danish choroideremia families . 
we have searched for mutations in the choroideremia gene -lrb- chm -rrb- in patients from _num2 danish families in which chm is segregating . 
employing polymerase chain reaction -lrb- pcr -rrb- , single strand conformation polymorphism -lrb- sscp -rrb- analysis , and direct dna sequencing , different mutations have been identified in _num1 patients . 
all the mutations will interfere with the correct translation of the mrna predicting a truncated protein or no gene product at all . . 
g130v , a common frda point mutation , appears to have arisen from a common founder . 
friedreich ataxia -lrb- frda -rrb- is the most common inherited ataxia . 
about _num2 % of mutant alleles have an expansion of a _ds trinucleotide repeat in intron _num1 of the affected gene , frda . 
the other _num1 % are point mutations . 
of the _num2 point mutations so far described , three appear to be more common . 
one of these is the g130v mutation in exon _num1 of frda . 
g130v , when present with an expanded _ds repeat on the other allele , is associated with an atypical frda phenotype . 
haplotype analysis was undertaken on the four families who have been described with this mutation . 
the results suggest a common founder for this mutation . 
although marked differences in extragenic marker haplotypes were seen in one family , similar intragenic haplotyping suggests the same mutation founder for this family with the differences explicable by two recombination events . . 
frequency of exon _num2 missense mutation -lrb- 442d : g -rrb- in cholesteryl ester transfer protein gene in hyperalphalipoproteinemic japanese subjects . 
cholesteryl ester transfer protein -lrb- cetp -rrb- transfers cholesteryl ester from high density lipoprotein -lrb- hdl -rrb- to apo b-containing lipoproteins . 
the hyperalphalipoproteinemia caused by cetp deficiency is fairly common in japan and one of the most common mutations in the cetp gene is the splicing defect of the intron _num2 , the allelic frequency of which has been shown to be _num1 . 
_num4 in the japanese general population . 
recently , we have reported a missense mutation in exon _num2 of the cetp gene -lrb- 442d g -rrb- , showing a dominant effect on the cetp activity and hdl-cholesterol level . 
in the current study , we determined the frequency of this new mutation in japanese hyperalphalipoproteinemic -lrb- hdl-cholesterol > or = _num3 mg / dl -rrb- subjects . 
a rapid and easy screening method for this new mutation was developed using a polymerase chain reaction -lrb- pcr -rrb- - mediated site-directed mutagenesis . 
among _num3 japanese hyperalphalipoproteinemic subjects -lrb- hdl-cholesterol ; _num3 . 
_num1 + / - _num2 . 
_num1 mg / dl , mean + / - s. d. -rrb- without the intron _num2 splice defect , three homozygotes -lrb- _num1 . 
_num1 % -rrb- and _num2 heterozygotes -lrb- _num2 . 
_num1 % -rrb- were found to have the 442d g mutation . 
the relative allelic frequency of this mutation was calculated to be _num1 . 
_num2 . 
one of the homozygotes for the 442d g mutation was the patient previously described by us as having hyperalphalipoproteinemia with corneal opacity and coronary heart disease . 
this was the first reported subject homozygous for the cetp deficiency who also demonstrated atherosclerotic symptoms . 
in homozygous subjects , cetp activity ranged from _num2 % to _num2 % of the normal value , which was consistent with the results obtained from the transient expression experiment previously reported ; however , the specific activity of cetp was not as low as expected . 
-lrb- abstract truncated _ds _num3 words -rrb- fibroblast growth factor homologous factor _num1 -lrb- fhf2 -rrb- : gene structure , expression and mapping to the borjeson-forssman-lehmann syndrome region in xq26 delineated by a duplication breakpoint in a bfls like patient . 
borjeson-forssman-lehmann syndrome -lrb- bfls -rrb- is a syndromal x-linked mental retardation , which maps by linkage to the _an region of the human x chromosome . 
we have identified a male patient with bfls like features and a duplication , _num2 , y , dup -lrb- x -rrb- -lrb- q26q28 -rrb- , inherited from his phenotypically normal mother . 
fluorescence in situ hybridisation using yeast artificial chromosome clones from xq26 localised the duplication breakpoint to an approximately 400-kb interval in the xq26 . 
_num1 region between dxs155 and dxs294 / dxs730 . 
database searches and analysis of available genomic dna sequence from the region revealed the presence of the fibroblast growth factor homologous factor gene , fhf2 , within the duplication breakpoint interval . 
the gene structure of fhf2 was determined and two new exons were identified , including a new _num1 end exon , 1b . 
fhf2 is a large gene extending over approximately _num3 kb in xq26 . 
_num1 and is composed of at least seven exons . 
it shows tissue-specific alternative splicing and alternative transcription starts . 
northern blot hybridisation showed highest expression in brain and skeletal muscle . 
the fhf2 gene localisation and tissue-specific expression pattern suggest it to be a candidate gene for familial cases of the bfls syndrome and other syndromal and non-specific forms of x-linked mental retardation mapping to the region . 
illegitimate transcription of the phenylalanine hydroxylase gene in lymphocytes for identification of mutations in phenylketonuria . 
taking advantage of the illegitimate transcription of the phenylalanine hydroxylase -lrb- pah -rrb- gene , we have been able to analyse the pah cdna sequence of hyperphenylalaninemic children in circulating lymphocytes . 
using this approach , we have also identified _num1 novel mutations in cdna from liver and lymphocytes of two patients . 
one mutation , detected by the abnormal pattern of migration of an amplified fragment , is a c to t transition in the splice acceptor site of intron _num2 , which resulted in the skipping of exon _num2 with the premature termination of rna translation downstream from exon _num2 -lrb- -3 ivs10 -rrb- . 
the other two mutations are missense mutations in exons _num2 and _num2 -lrb- respectively , l333f and e390g -rrb- . 
the present study supports the view that circulating lymphocytes give easy access to pah gene transcripts whose nucleotide sequence is identical to that reported in liver and therefore represent a useful tool for molecular genetic studies in phenylketonuria . . 
function of an axonal chemoattractant modulated by metalloprotease activity . 
the axonal chemoattractant netrin-1 guides spinal commissural axons by activating its receptor dcc -lrb- deleted in colorectal cancer -rrb- . 
we have found that chemical inhibitors of metalloproteases potentiate netrin-mediated axon outgrowth in vitro . 
we have also found that dcc is a substrate for metalloprotease-dependent ectodomain shedding , and that the inhibitors block proteolytic processing of dcc and cause an increase in dcc protein levels on axons within spinal cord explants . 
thus , potentiation of netrin activity by inhibitors may result from stabilization of dcc on the axons , and proteolytic activity may regulate axon migration by controlling the number of functional extracellular axon guidance receptors . . 
choroideremia : close linkage to dxys1 and dxys12 demonstrated by segregation analysis and historical-genealogical evidence . 
linkage studies using restriction fragment length polymorphisms were conducted in the x-linked disorder , choroideremia , designated tcd for progressive tapeto-choroidal dystrophy . 
previously demonstrated close linkage with locus dxys1 was confirmed -lrb- lod _num2 . 
_num2 at _num1 recombination distance -rrb- . 
in addition , locus dxys12 was found to be closely linked with tcd -lrb- lod _num1 . 
_num2 at _num1 recombination distance -rrb- . 
the disease mainly occurs in three large kindreds in remote northern finland . 
while formal genealogical proof is lacking , all presently living -lrb- more than _num2 affected males and _num3 carrier females -rrb- probably originate from a common founder couple born in _num4 and _num4 , twelve generations ago . 
all _num2 patients and _num2 carriers tested from the three kindreds had the same haplotype -lrb- tcd / dxys1 , 11kb / dxys12 , _num1 . 
6kb -rrb- . 
given that at least _num3 female meioses transmitting tcd have occurred since _num4 in these kindreds , extremely close linkage between tcd , dxys1 and dxys12 is suggested . 
the above haplotype is a very useful diagnostic tool in these tcd families . 
we suggest that our historical-genealogical approach to linkage analysis may be possible elsewhere in similar isolated populations functional consequences of mutations in the early growth response _num1 gene -lrb- egr2 -rrb- correlate with severity of human myelinopathies . 
the early growth response _num1 gene -lrb- egr2 -rrb- is a cys2his2zinc finger transcription factor which is thought to play a role in the regulation of peripheral nervous system myelination . 
this idea is based partly on the phenotype of homozygous krox20 -lrb- egr2 -rrb- knockout mice , which display hypomyelination of the pns and a block of schwann cells at an early stage of differentiation . 
mutations in the human egr2 gene have recently been associated with the inherited peripheral neuropathies charcot-marie-tooth type _num1 , dejerine-sottas syndrome and congenital hypomyelinating neuropathy . 
three of the four egr2 mutations are dominant and occur within the zinc finger dna-binding domain . 
the fourth mutation is recessive and affects the inhibitory domain -lrb- r1 -rrb- that binds the nab transcriptional co-repressors . 
a combination of dna-binding assays and transcriptional analysis was used to determine the functional consequences of these mutations . 
the zinc finger mutations affect dna binding and the amount of residual binding directly correlates with disease severity . 
the r1 domain mutation prevents interaction of egr2 with the nab co-repressors and thereby increases transcriptional activity . 
these data provide insight into the possible disease mechanisms underlying egr2 mutations and the reason for varying severity and differences in inheritance patterns . . 
molecular basis of human von willebrand disease : analysis of platelet von willebrand factor mrna . 
von willebrand disease -lrb- vwd -rrb- , the most common inherited bleeding disorder in humans , can result from either a quantitative or a qualitative defect in the adhesive glycoprotein , von willebrand factor -lrb- vwf -rrb- . 
molecular studies of vwd have been limited by the large size of the vwf gene and difficulty in obtaining the vwf mrna from patients . 
by use of an adaptation of the polymerase chain reaction , vwf mrna was amplified and sequenced from peripheral blood platelets . 
a silent vwf allele was identified , resulting from a cis defect in vwf mrna transcription or processing . 
in two type iia vwd patients , two different but adjacent missense mutations were identified , the locations of which may identify an important vwf functional domain . 
expression in heterologous cells of recombinant vwf containing one of these latter mutations reproduced the characteristic structural abnormality seen in type iia vwd plasma . . 
a transgene insertion creating a heritable chromosome deletion mouse model of prader-willi and angelman syndromes . 
prader-willi syndrome -lrb- pws -rrb- and angelman syndrome -lrb- as -rrb- result from the loss of function of imprinted genes in human chromosome 15q11-q13 . 
the central part of mouse chromosome _num1 is homologous to human 15q11-q13 , with conservation of both gene order and imprinted features . 
we report here the characterization of a transgene insertion -lrb- epstein-barr virus latent membrane protein 2a , lmp2a -rrb- into mouse chromosome 7c , which has resulted in mouse models for pws and as dependent on the sex of the transmitting parent . 
epigenotype -lrb- allelic expression and dna methylation -rrb- and fluorescence in situ hybridization analyses indicate that the transgene-induced mutation has generated a complete deletion of the pws / as homologous region but has not deleted flanking loci . 
because the intact chromosome _num1 , opposite the deleted homolog , maintains the correct imprint in somatic cells of pws and as mice and establishes the correct imprint in male and female germ cells of as mice , homologous association and replication asynchrony are not part of the imprinting mechanism . 
this heritable-deletion mouse model will be particularly useful for the identification of the etiological genes and mechanisms , phenotypic basis , and investigation of therapeutic approaches for pws . . 
transgenic mice expressing a truncated form of the high mobility group i-c protein develop adiposity and an abnormally high prevalence of lipomas . 
chromosomal translocations in human lipomas frequently create fusion transcripts encoding high mobility group -lrb- hmg -rrb- i-c dna-binding domains and c-terminal sequences from different presumed transcription factors , suggesting a potential role for hmg i-c in the development of lipomas . 
to evaluate the role of the hmg i-c component , the three dna-binding domains of hmg i-c have now been expressed in transgenic mice . 
despite the ubiquitous expression of the truncated hmg i-c protein , the transgenic mice develop a selective abundance of fat tissue early in life , show marked adipose tissue inflammation , and have an abnormally high incidence of lipomas . 
these findings demonstrate that the dna-binding domains of hmg i-c , in the absence of a c-terminal fusion partner , are sufficient to perturb adipogenesis and predispose to lipomas . 
we provide data supporting the central utility of this animal model as a tool to understand the molecular mechanisms underlying the development of one of the most common kind of human benign tumors . . 
a common msh2 mutation in english and north american hnpcc families : origin , phenotypic expression , and sex specific differences in colorectal cancer . 
the frequency , origin , and phenotypic expression of a germline msh2 gene mutation previously identified in seven kindreds with hereditary non-polyposis cancer syndrome -lrb- hnpcc -rrb- was investigated . 
the mutation -lrb- a -- > t at nt943 + _num1 -rrb- disrupts the _num1 splice site of exon _num1 leading to the deletion of this exon from msh2 mrna and represents the only frequent msh2 mutation so far reported . 
although this mutation was initially detected in four of _num2 colorectal cancer families analysed from eastern england , more extensive analysis has reduced the frequency to four of _num2 -lrb- _num1 % -rrb- english hnpcc kindreds analysed . 
in contrast , the msh2 mutation was identified in _num2 of _num2 -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- separately identified colorectal families from newfoundland . 
to investigate the origin of this mutation in colorectal cancer families from england -lrb- n = _num1 -rrb- , newfoundland -lrb- n = _num2 -rrb- , and the united states -lrb- n = _num1 -rrb- , haplotype analysis using microsatellite markers linked to msh2 was performed . 
within the english and us families there was little evidence for a recent common origin of the msh2 splice site mutation in most families . 
in contrast , a common haplotype was identified at the two flanking markers -lrb- ca5 and d2s288 -rrb- in eight of the newfoundland families . 
these findings suggested a founder effect within newfoundland similar to that reported by others for two mlh1 mutations in finnish hnpcc families . 
we calculated age related risks of all , colorectal , endometrial , and ovarian cancers in nt943 + _num1 a -- > t msh2 mutation carriers -lrb- n = _num2 -rrb- for all patients and for men and women separately . 
for both sexes combined , the penetrances at age _num2 years for all cancers and for colorectal cancer were _num1 . 
_num2 and _num1 . 
_num2 , respectively . 
the risk of colorectal cancer was significantly higher -lrb- p < _num1 . 
_num2 -rrb- in males than females -lrb- _num1 . 
_num2 v _num1 . 
_num2 and _num1 . 
_num2 v _num1 . 
_num2 at ages _num2 and _num2 years , respectively -rrb- . 
for females there was a high risk of endometrial cancer -lrb- _num1 . 
_num1 at age _num2 years -rrb- and premenopausal ovarian cancer -lrb- _num1 . 
_num1 at _num2 years -rrb- . 
these intersex differences in colorectal cancer risks have implications for screening programmes and for attempts to identify colorectal cancer susceptibility modifiers . 
novel mutation at the initiation codon in the norrie disease gene in two japanese families . 
we have identified a new mutation of norrie disease -lrb- nd -rrb- gene in two japanese males from unrelated families ; they showed typical ocular features of nd but no mental retardation or hearing impairment . 
a mutation was found in both patients at the initiation codon of exon _num1 of the nd gene -lrb- _ds to _ds -rrb- , with otherwise normal nucleotide sequences . 
their mothers had the normal and mutant types of the gene , which was expected for heterozygotes of the disease . 
the mutation of the initiation codon would cause the failure of nd gene expression or a defect in translation thereby truncating the amino terminus of nd protein . 
in view of the rarity and marked heterogeneity of mutations in the nd gene , the present apparently unrelated japanese families who have lived in the same area for over two centuries presumably share the origin of the mutation . . 
haplotype and phenotype analysis of six recurrent brca1 mutations in _num2 families : results of an international study . 
several brca1 mutations have now been found to occur in geographically diverse breast and ovarian cancer families . 
to investigate mutation origin and mutation-specific phenotypes due to brca1 , we constructed a haplotype of nine polymorphic markers within or immediately flanking the brca1 locus in a set of _num2 breast / ovarian cancer families selected for having one of six recurrent brca1 mutations . 
tests of both mutations and family-specific differences in age at diagnosis were not significant . 
a comparison of the six mutations in the relative proportions of cases of breast and ovarian cancer was suggestive of an effect -lrb- p = . 
_num3 -rrb- , with _num2 % of women presumed affected because of the _num4 del _num2 brca1 mutation having ovarian cancer , compared with _num2 % of affected women with the splice-site mutation in intron _num1 of brca1 . 
for the brca1 mutations studied here , the individual mutations are estimated to have arisen 9-170 generations ago . 
in general , a high degree of haplotype conservation across the region was observed , with haplotype differences most often due to mutations in the short-tandem-repeat markers , although some likely instances of recombination also were observed . 
for several of the instances , there was evidence for multiple , independent , brca1 mutational events . 
a new glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase variant -lrb- g6pd nagano -rrb- associated with congenital hemolytic anemia . 
a new glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase -lrb- g6pd -rrb- variant associated with chronic nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia was reported . 
the patient , a 6-year-old japanese male , was noticed to have hemolytic anemia soon after birth , and a diagnosis of g6pd deficiency was made at the age of _num1 . 
he had episodes of hemolytic crisis several times after upper respiratory infection . 
g6pd activity of the patient was _num1 . 
_num1 % of normal . 
the enzymatic characteristics were examined when he was _num1 years old , and his g6pd showed faster-than-normal electrophoretic mobility , low km g6p , high km nadp , low ki nadph , normal utilization of substrate analogues , heat instability , and a normal ph optimum curve . 
from these results , this was considered to be a new variant and was designated g6pd nagano . 
infection-induced hemolysis and chronic hemolytic anemia seem to be due to markedly impaired enzyme activity and thermal instability . 
craniofrontonasal dysplasia . 
we report on nine patients with craniofrontonasal dysplasia -lrb- cfnd -rrb- . 
seven classical cases had facial features suggestive of frontonasal dysplasia and coronal craniosynostosis . 
extracranial abnormalities such as brittle nails with prominent longitudinal grooves or syndactyly of fingers and toes were observed in individual patients . 
in two families the father of classical cases showed a milder pattern of abnormalities , consistent with the diagnosis . 
we present a _num1 - to 13-year follow-up on our patients . 
hypotonia and laxity of joints are common and may necessitate supportive measures . 
mild developmental delay was noted in three out of six classical cases studied in detail . 
unlike almost all other x-linked disorders , clinical expression in cfnd is generally much more severe in females than in males . 
in contrast to previous reports of this condition , one of our severely affected cases is a male . . 
a new mutation in the proteolipid protein -lrb- plp -rrb- gene in a german family with pelizaeus-merzbacher disease . 
a c-to-t transition in exon _num1 of the plp gene was found in _num1 affected males and two obligate carriers in a german family with pelizaeus-merzbacher disease . 
the mutation , which causes loss of an hphi site and changes amino acid _num3 from threonine to isoleucine , was absent from _num3 normal chromosomes . 
there are _num1 concordances and _num1 discrepancy between these results and those obtained by magnetic resonance imaging in this family . . 
the wiskott-aldrich syndrome and x-linked congenital thrombocytopenia are caused by mutations of the same gene . 
the wiskott-aldrich syndrome -lrb- was -rrb- is an x-linked recessive disorder characterized by thrombocytopenia , small platelets , eczema , recurrent infections , and immunodeficiency . 
besides the classic was phenotype , there is a group of patients with congenital x-linked thrombocytopenia -lrb- xlt -rrb- who have small platelets but only transient eczema , if any , and minimal immune deficiency . 
because the gene responsible for was has been sequenced , it was possible to correlate the was phenotypes with was gene mutations . 
using a fingerprinting screening technique , we determined the approximate location of the mutation in _num2 unrelated was patients with mild to severe clinical symptoms . 
direct sequence analysis of cdna and genomic dna obtained from patient-derived cell lines showed _num2 unique mutations distributed throughout the was gene , including insertions , deletions , and point mutations resulting in amino acid substitutions , termination , exon skipping , or splicing defects . 
of _num1 unrelated patients with the xlt phenotype , _num1 had missense mutations affecting exon _num1 and _num1 had a splice-site mutation affecting exon _num1 . 
patients with classic was had more complex mutations , resulting in termination codons , frameshift , and early termination . 
these findings provide direct evidence that xlt and was are caused by mutations of the same gene and suggest that severe clinical phenotypes are associated with complex mutations . . 
a 3-base pair in-frame deletion of the phenylalanine hydroxylase gene results in a kinetic variant of phenylketonuria . 
phenylketonuria -lrb- pku -rrb- is an autosomal recessive disease due to deficiency of a hepatic enzyme , phenylalanine hydroxylase -lrb- pah -rrb- . 
the absence of pah activity results in typical pku while persistence of a residual enzyme activity gives rise to variant forms of the disease . 
we report here a 3-base pair in-frame deletion of the pah gene -lrb- delta _num3 -rrb- in a mild variant , with markedly reduced affinity of the enzyme for phenylalanine -lrb- km = _num3 nm -rrb- , and we provide functional evidence for responsibility of the deletion in the mutant phenotype . 
since the deletion was located in the third exon of the gene , which presents no homology with other hydroxylases , we suggest that exon _num1 is involved in the specificity of the enzyme for phenylalanine . 
finally , since none of the _num2 pku patients tested were found to carry this particular deletion , our study suggests that this molecular event probably occurred recently on the background of a haplotype _num1 gene in portugal . . 
friedreich ataxia : an overview . 
friedreich ataxia , an autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disease , is the most common of the inherited ataxias . 
the recent discovery of the gene that is mutated in this condition , frda , has led to rapid advances in the understanding of the pathogenesis of friedreich ataxia . 
about _num2 % of mutant alleles have an expansion of a _ds trinucleotide repeat in intron _num1 of the gene . 
this leads to reduced levels of the protein , frataxin . 
there is mounting evidence to suggest that friedreich ataxia is the result of accumulation of iron in mitochondria leading to excess production of free radicals , which then results in cellular damage and death . 
currently there is no known treatment that alters the natural course of the disease . 
the discovery of the frda gene and its possible function has raised hope that rational therapeutic strategies will be developed . . 
clinical and molecular genetics of primary dystonias . 
primary dystonias are movement disorders with dystonia as a major symptom . 
they are frequently inherited as mendelian traits . 
there are at least eight clinically distinct autosomal dominant and two x-linked recessive forms . 
in addition , pedigree analyses suggest the occurrence of an autosomal recessive variant . 
the clinical classification is increasingly being replaced by a genetic one . 
to date gene loci have been identified in at least six autosomal dominant forms , i. e. , in idiopathic torsion dystonia -lrb- 9q34 -rrb- , focal dystonia -lrb- 18p -rrb- , adult-onset idiopathic torsion dystonia of mixed type -lrb- 8p21-q22 -rrb- , dopa-responsive dystonia -lrb- 14q22 . 
1-q22 . 
_num1 -rrb- , and paroxysmal dystonic choreoathetosis -lrb- 2q25-q33 ; 1p21-p13 . 
_num1 -rrb- . 
gene loci in the x-linked recessive forms have been assigned to xq13 . 
_num1 in the x-linked dystonia parkinsonism syndrome and to xq22 in x-linked sensorineural deafness , dystonia , and mental retardation . 
the disease genes have been identified in two autosomal dominant forms and in one x-linked recessive form . 
mutations in a gene coding for an atp-binding protein were detected in idiopathic torsion dystonia -lrb- dyt1 -rrb- , and the gtp cyclohydrolase _num1 gene is mutated in dopa-responsive dystonia -lrb- dyt5 -rrb- . 
in sensorineural deafness , dystonia , and mental retardation , mutations were found in the gene ddp coding for a polypeptide of unknown function . 
this article reviews the clinical and molecular genetics of primary dystonias , critically discusses present findings , and proposes referring to the known forms , most of which can be distinguished by genetic criteria , as dystonias 1-12 . 
clinical and genetic study of friedreich ataxia in an australian population . 
friedreich ataxia is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutations in the frda gene that encodes a 210-amino acid protein called frataxin . 
an expansion of a _ds trinucleotide repeat in intron _num1 of the gene is present in more than _num2 % of mutant alleles . 
of the _num2 people we studied who have mutations in frda , _num2 are homozygous for an expanded _ds repeat ; the other five patients have an expansion in one allele and a point mutation in the other . 
here we present a detailed clinical and genetic study of a subset of _num2 patients homozygous for an expansion of the _ds repeat . 
we found a correlation between the size of the smaller of the two expanded alleles and age at onset , age into wheelchair , scoliosis , impaired vibration sense , and the presence of foot deformity . 
there was no significant correlation between the size of the smaller allele and cardiomyopathy , diabetes mellitus , loss of proprioception , or bladder symptoms . 
the larger allele size correlated with bladder symptoms and the presence of foot deformity . 
the duration of disease is correlated with wheelchair use and the presence of diabetes , scoliosis , bladder symptoms and impaired proprioception , and vibration sense but no other complications studied . . 
recurrent meningococcal meningitis with absence of the sixth component of complement : an evaluation of underlying immunologic mechanisms . 
a 51 / 2-year-old black girl with recurrent meningococcal meningitis and absence of the sixth component of complement -lrb- c6 -rrb- is reported . 
to explore the pathogenesis of recurrent neisserial infections in c6 deficiency , a detailed analysis of her immune competence was conducted . 
her serum had normal chemotactic , opsonic , alternative complement pathway , and specific antibody activity , but lacked complement-mediated bacteriolytic activity . 
in addition , her c6-deficient serum was indistinguishable from normal serum in a complement-dependent assay of phagocyte bactericidal activity . 
absent bacteriolysis remains the only consistent defect associated with recurrent neisserial infections and absence of one of the late-acting complement components . . 
mutation of the sterol 27-hydroxylase gene -lrb- cyp27 -rrb- results in truncation of mrna expressed in leucocytes in a japanese family with cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis . 
objectives a japanese family with cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis -lrb- ctx -rrb- was investigated for a sequence alteration in the sterol 27-hydroxylase gene -lrb- cyp27 -rrb- . 
the expression of cyp27 has been mostly explored using cultured fibroblasts , prompting the examination of the transcripts from blood leucocytes as a simple and rapid technique . 
methods an alteration in cyp27 of the proband was searched for by polymerase chain reaction-single strand conformation polymorphism -lrb- pcr-sscp -rrb- analysis and subsequent sequencing . 
samples of rna were subjected to reverse transcription pcr -lrb- rt-pcr -rrb- and the product of the proband was amplified with nested primers and sequenced . 
results a homozygous g to a transition at the _num1 end of intron _num1 was detected in the patient . 
in rt-pcr analysis , only a truncated transcript was detected in the patient , whereas both normal and truncated transcripts were detected in the siblings . 
the sequencing of the patients cdna fragment disclosed a direct conjuction of exon _num1 and exon _num1 . 
conclusion the mutation at splice donor site and the truncation of mrna were identical with those of a recently reported italian patient , although different in symptomatology . 
the application of blood leucocytes can be a simple technique on analysing a constructive abnormality of cyp27 mrna . . 
frequent detection of codon _num3 mutation in the androgen receptor gene in advanced prostate cancers . 
prostatic tissue specimens derived from transurethral resections of patients with metastatic prostate cancer were analyzed for genetic alterations in the hormone-binding domain of the androgen receptor -lrb- ar -rrb- gene . 
direct sequencing of the polymerase chain reaction-derived dnas of _num1 of _num2 specimens revealed a codon _num3 mutation -lrb- _ds -- > _ds , thr -- > ala -rrb- in the hormone-binding domain of the ar gene . 
this same ar mutation has been reported previously in a metastatic prostate cancer cell line , lncap , where this mutation confers upon the ar an altered ligand-binding specificity which is stimulated by estrogens , progestagens , and antiandrogens . 
it is possible that analogous to an activated / altered growth factor receptor oncogene , codon _num3 mutant ar with altered ligand binding may provide a selective growth advantage in the genesis of a subset of advanced prostate cancer . 
although estrogens are used infrequently , antiandrogens are used increasingly in hormonal therapy for patients with advanced prostate cancer . 
the stimulatory effect of these therapeutic agents on the codon _num3 mutant ar further suggests that this frequently observed ar mutation may contribute to the treatment refractory disease . . 
atm-dependent phosphorylation of nibrin in response to radiation exposure . 
mutations in the gene atm are responsible for the genetic disorder ataxia-telangiectasia -lrb- a-t -rrb- , which is characterized by cerebellar dysfunction , radiosensitivity , chromosomal instability and cancer predisposition . 
both the a-t phenotype and the similarity of the atm protein to other dna-damage sensors suggests a role for atm in biochemical pathways involved in the recognition , signalling and repair of dna double-strand breaks -lrb- dsbs -rrb- . 
there are strong parallels between the pattern of radiosensitivity , chromosomal instability and cancer predisposition in a-t patients and that in patients with nijmegen breakage syndrome -lrb- nbs -rrb- . 
the protein defective in nbs , nibrin -lrb- encoded by nbs1 -rrb- , forms a complex with mre11 and rad50 -lrb- refs _num1 , _num1 -rrb- . 
this complex localizes to dsbs within _num2 minutes after cellular exposure to ionizing radiation -lrb- ir -rrb- and is observed in brightly staining nuclear foci after a longer period of time . 
the overlap between clinical and cellular phenotypes in a-t and nbs suggests that atm and nibrin may function in the same biochemical pathway . 
here we demonstrate that nibrin is phosphorylated within one hour of treatment of cells with ir . 
this response is abrogated in a-t cells that either do not express atm protein or express near full-length mutant protein . 
we also show that atm physically interacts with and phosphorylates nibrin on serine _num3 both in vivo and in vitro . 
phosphorylation of this site appears to be functionally important because mutated nibrin -lrb- s343a -rrb- does not completely complement radiosensitivity in nbs cells . 
atm phosphorylation of nibrin does not affect nibrin-mre11-rad50 association as revealed by radiation-induced foci formation . 
our data provide a biochemical explanation for the similarity in phenotype between a-t and nbs . . 
detection of an unstable fragment of dna specific to individuals with myotonic dystrophy . 
myotonic dystrophy -lrb- dm -rrb- is the most common form of adult muscular dystrophy , with a prevalence of 2-14 per _num3 , _num3 individuals . 
the disease is characterized by progressive muscle weakness and sustained muscle contraction , often with a wide range of accompanying symptoms . 
the age at onset and severity of the disease show extreme variation , both within and between families . 
despite its clinical variability , this dominant condition segregates as a single locus at chromosome 19q13 . 
_num1 in every population studied . 
it is flanked by the tightly linked genetic markers ercc1 proximally and d19s51 distally ; these define the dm critical region . 
we report the isolation of an expressed sequence from this region which detects a dna fragment that is larger in affected individuals than in normal siblings or unaffected controls . 
the size of this fragment varies between affected siblings , and increases in size through generations in parallel with increasing severity of the disease . 
we postulate that this unstable dna sequence is the molecular feature that underlies dm . 
detection of a novel missense mutation and second recurrent mutation in the cacna1a gene in individuals with ea-2 and fhm . 
mutations in the brain specific p / q type ca2 + channel alpha1 subunit gene , cacna1a , have been identified in three clinically distinct disorders , viz . 
episodic ataxia type _num1 -lrb- ea-2 -rrb- , familial hemiplegic migraine -lrb- fhm -rrb- and spinocerebellar ataxia _num1 -lrb- sca6 -rrb- . 
for individuals with ea-2 , the mutations described thus far are presumed to result in a truncated protein product . 
several different missense mutations have been identified in patients with fhm . 
at least two of these mutations have been identified on two different chromosome 19p13 haplotypes and thus represent recurrent mutations . 
in the present study , we have screened several individuals for mutations in all _num2 exons in the cacna1a gene by single-strand conformation analysis . 
we have characterised a novel missense mutation , g5260a , in exon _num2 in a family segregating for ea-2 . 
the consequence of this mutation is an amino acid substitution at a highly conserved position within the cacna1a gene . 
this represents the first point mutation not resulting in a proposed truncated protein . 
furthermore , this mutation has been detected in a family member with mild clinical signs including only migraine . 
additionally , a second previously identified recurrent muta tion , c2272t , in exon _num2 has been discovered in a patient with fhm . . 
dominant negative effect of the apc1309 mutation : a possible explanation for genotype-phenotype correlations in familial adenomatous polyposis . 
inactivation of the adenomatous polyposis coli -lrb- apc -rrb- gene product initiates colorectal tumorigenesis . 
patients with familial apc -lrb- fap -rrb- carry germ-line mutations in the apc gene and develop multiple colorectal adenomas and subsequent carcinomas early in life . 
the severity of the disease correlates with the position of the inherited apc mutation -lrb- genotype-phenotype correlation -rrb- . 
together with the fact that both germ-line and sporadic apc mutations cluster in the central region of the apc gene , this points to a dominant negative effect of certain apc mutants . 
loss of apc function was recently shown to result in enhanced beta-catenin - / tcf-mediated transcription in colon epithelial cells . 
here , we provide experimental evidence for a dominant negative effect of apc gene products associated with severe polyposis . 
wild-type apc activity in beta-catenin - / tcf-mediated transcription was strongly inhibited by a mutant apc that is truncated at codon _num4 . 
in contrast , mutant apc gene products that are associated with attenuated polyposis -lrb- codon _num3 or _num4 -rrb- interfered only weakly with wild-type apc activity . 
these results suggest a molecular explanation for the genotype-phenotype correlation in fap patients and support the idea that colorectal tumor growth might be , in part , driven by selection for a mutation in the mutation cluster region . . 
mutation of the kit -lrb- mast / stem cell growth factor receptor -rrb- protooncogene in human piebaldism . 
piebaldism is an autosomal dominant genetic disorder characterized by cogenital patches of skin and hair from which melanocytes are completely absent . 
a similar disorder of mouse , dominant white spotting -lrb- w -rrb- , results from mutations of the c-kit protooncogene , which encodes and receptor for mast / stem cell growth factor . 
we identified a kit gene mutation in a proband with classic autosomal dominant piebaldism . 
this mutation results in a gly -- arg substitution at codon _num3 , within the tyrosine kinase domain . 
this substitution was not seen in any normal individuals and was completely linked to the piebald phenotype in the probands family . 
piebaldism in this family thus appears to be the human homologue to dominant white spotting -lrb- w -rrb- of the mouse . . 
an arylsulfatase a -lrb- arsa -rrb- missense mutation -lrb- t274m -rrb- causing late-infantile metachromatic leukodystrophy . 
metachromatic leukodystrophy -lrb- mld -rrb- is an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder caused by a deficiency of arylsulfatase a -lrb- arsa ; ec _num1 . 
_num1 . 
_num1 . 
_num1 -rrb- . 
the _num1 arsa exons and adjacent intron boundaries from a patient with late-infantile metachromatic leukodystrophy were polymerase chain reaction -lrb- pcr -rrb- amplified in seven discrete reactions . 
amplified arsa exons were analysed for the presence of sequence alterations by single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis , followed by direct sequencing of pcr products . 
the patient was found to be homozygous for a c -- > t transition in exon iv that results in the substitution of a highly conserved threonine residue at amino acid _num3 with a methionine -lrb- t274m -rrb- . 
analysis of a further _num2 mld patients revealed the presence of five additional homozygotes for t274m . 
all _num1 t274m homozygotes -lrb- representing four families -rrb- were of lebanese descent , and all were known to be the result of consanguineous marriages . 
the altered amino acid is rigidly conserved among _num2 sulfatases from escherichia coli to humans ; therefore , it is most likely that the resultant mutant protein will have little or no enzyme activity . 
this is consistent with the very low arsa activity measured in these patients and their uniformly severe clinical presentation mutations in the gene for x-linked adrenoleukodystrophy in patients with different clinical phenotypes . 
recently , the gene for the most common peroxisomal disorder , x-linked adrenoleukodystrophy -lrb- x-ald -rrb- , has been described encoding a peroxisomal membrane transporter protein . 
we analyzed the entire protein-coding sequence of this gene by reverse-transcription pcr , sscp , and dna sequencing in five patients with different clinical expression of x-ald and in their female relatives ; these clinical expressions were cerebral childhood ald , adrenomyeloneuropathy -lrb- amn -rrb- , and '' addison disease only '' -lrb- ado -rrb- phenotype . 
in the three patients exhibiting the classical picture of severe childhood ald we identified in the _num1 portion of the x-ald gene a 38-bp deletion that causes a frameshift mutation , a 3-bp deletion leading to a deletion of an amino acid in the atp-binding domain of the ald protein , and a missense mutation . 
in the patient with the clinical phenotype of amn , a nonsense mutation in codon _num3 , along with a second site mutation at codon _num3 , was observed . 
analysis of the patient with the ado phenotype revealed a further missense mutation at a highly conserved position in the aldp / pmp70 comparison . 
the disruptive nature of two mutations -lrb- i. e. , the frameshift and the nonsense mutation -rrb- in patients with biochemically proved childhood ald and amn further strongly supports the hypothesis that alterations in this gene play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of x-ald . 
since the current biochemical techniques for x-ald carrier detection in affected families lack sufficient reliability , our procedure described for systematic mutation scanning is also capable of improving genetic counseling and prenatal diagnosis atelosteogenesis type ii is caused by mutations in the diastrophic dysplasia sulfate-transporter gene -lrb- dtdst -rrb- : evidence for a phenotypic series involving three chondrodysplasias . 
atelosteogenesis type ii -lrb- ao ii -rrb- is a neonatally lethal chondrodysplasia whose clinical and histological characteristics resemble those of another chondrodysplasia , the much less severe diastrophic dysplasia -lrb- dtd -rrb- . 
the similarity suggests a shared pathogenesis involving lesions in the same biochemical pathway and perhaps the same gene . 
dtd is caused by mutations in the recently identified diastrophic dysplasia sulfate-transporter gene -lrb- dtdst -rrb- . 
here , we report that aoii patients also have dtdst mutations , which lead to defective uptake of inorganic sulfate and insufficient sulfation of macromolecules by patient mesenchymal cells in vitro . 
together with our recent observation that a third even more severe chondrodysplasia , achondrogenesis type ib , is also caused by mutations in dtdst , these results demonstrate a phenotypic series of three chondrodysplasias of increasing severity caused by lesions in a single sulfate-transporter gene . 
the severity of the phenotype appears to be correlated with the predicted effect of the mutations on the residual activity of the dtdst protein . . 
emerin , deficiency of which causes emery-dreifuss muscular dystrophy , is localized at the inner nuclear membrane . 
x-linked recessive emery-dreifuss muscular dystrophy -lrb- edmd -rrb- is an inherited muscle disorder characterized by the clinical triad of progressive wasting of humero-peroneal muscles , early contractures of the elbows , achilles tendons and postcervical muscles , and cardiac conduction block with a high risk of sudden death . 
the gene for edmd on xq28 encodes a novel protein named emerin that localizes at the nuclear membrane of skeletal , cardiac and smooth muscles and some other non-muscle tissues . 
to investigate a possible physiological role for emerin , we examined the ultrastructural localization of the protein in human skeletal muscle and hela cells , using ultrathin cryosections . 
we found that the immune-labeled colloidal gold particles were localized on the nucleoplasmic surface of the inner nuclear membrane , but not on the nuclear pore . 
emerin stayed on the cytoplasmic surface of the nuclear lamina , even after detergent treatment that solubilizes membrane lipids and washes out membrane proteins . 
these results suggest that emerin anchors at the inner nuclear membrane through the hydrophobic stretch , and protrudes from the hydrophilic region to the nucleoplasm where it interacts with the nuclear lamina . 
we speculate that emerin contributes to maintain the nuclear structure and stability , as well as nuclear functions , particularly in muscle tissues that have severe stress with rigorous contraction-relaxation movements and calcium flux . . 
identification of a common pex1 mutation in zellweger syndrome . 
the zellweger spectrum of disease , encompassing zellweger syndrome and the progressively milder phenotypes of neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy and infantile refsum disease , is due to a failure to form functional peroxisomes . 
cell fusion complementation studies demonstrated that these diseases are genetically heterogeneous , with two-thirds of all patients lying within a single complementation group , cg1 . 
molecular genetic and cell biology studies have shown that pex1 is deficient in many cg1 patients . 
however , previous studies have focused on mildly affected patients and there is still no report of two mutant pex1 alleles in any zellweger syndrome patient . 
furthermore , mutations in the pmp70 gene have also been identified in two zellweger syndrome patients from cg1 , raising the possibility that cg1 patients may represent a mixture of pex1-deficient and pmp70-deficient individuals . 
to address the molecular basis of disease in zellweger syndrome patients from cg1 , we examined all _num2 pex1 exons in four patients , including both patients that have mutations in pmp70 . 
pex1 mutations were detected in all four patients , including a 1-bp insertion -lrb- c. 2097inst -rrb- in exon _num2 that was present in three of the four patients . 
subsequent studies demonstrated that this mutation is present in one-half of all cg1 patients and correlates with the zellweger syndrome phenotype . 
as this mutation leads to a loss of protein function its frequency makes it the most common cause of zellweger syndrome , helping to explain the high percentage of patients that belong to cg1 . 
polymorphisms of the cyp2d6 gene increase susceptibility to ankylosing spondylitis . 
ankylosing spondylitis -lrb- as -rrb- is a common and highly familial rheumatic disorder . 
the sibling recurrence risk ratio for the disease is _num2 and heritability assessed in twins > _num2 % . 
although mhc genes , including hla-b27 , contribute only 20-50 % of the genetic risk for the disease , no non-mhc gene has yet been convincingly demonstrated to influence either susceptibility to the disease or its phenotypic expression . 
previous linkage and association studies have suggested the presence of a susceptibility gene for as close to , or within , the cytochrome _an 2d6 gene -lrb- cyp2d6 , debrisoquine hydroxylase -rrb- located at chromosome 22q13 .1 . 
we performed a linkage study of chromosome _num2 in _num3 families with as affected sibling-pairs . 
association of alleles of the cyp2d6 gene was examined by both case-control and within-family means . 
for case-control studies , _num3 unrelated individuals with as -lrb- _num3 probands from sibling-pair and parent-case trio families and _num3 unrelated non-familial sporadic cases -rrb- and _num3 healthy ethnically matched controls were employed . 
for within-family association studies , _num3 families including _num3 parent-case trios and _num3 affected sibling-pair families were employed . 
homozygosity for poor metabolizer alleles was found to be associated with as . 
heterozygosity for the most frequent poor metabolizer allele -lrb- cyp2d6 * _num1 -rrb- was not associated with increased susceptibility to as . 
significant within-family association of cyp2d6 * _num1 alleles and as was demonstrated . 
weak linkage was also demonstrated between cyp2d6 and as . 
we postulate that altered metabolism of a natural toxin or antigen by the cyp2d6 gene may increase susceptibility to as . 
molecular analysis of the genotype-phenotype relationship in factor x deficiency . 
factor x deficiency is a rare haemorrhagic condition , normally inherited as an autosomal recessive trait , in which a variable clinical presentation correlates poorly with laboratory phenotype . 
the factor x -lrb- _an -rrb- genes of _num2 unrelated individuals with factor x deficiency -lrb- _num2 familial and two sporadic cases -rrb- were sequenced yielding a total of _num2 novel mutations . 
family studies were performed in order to distinguish the contributions of individual mutant _an alleles to the clinical and laboratory phenotypes . 
missense mutations were studied by means of molecular modelling , whereas single basepair substitutions in splice sites and the _num1 flanking region were examined by in vitro splicing assay and luciferase reporter gene assay respectively . 
the deletion allele of a novel hexanucleotide insertion / deletion polymorphism in the _an gene promoter region was shown by reporter gene assay , to reduce promoter activity by approximately _num2 % . 
one family manifesting an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance possessed three clinically affected members who were heterozygous for a splice-site mutation that was predicted to lead to the production of a truncated protein product . 
a model which accounts for the dominant negative effect of this lesion is presented . 
variation in the antigen level of heterozygous relatives of probands was found to be significantly higher between families than within families , consistent with the view that the nature of the _an lesion -lrb- s -rrb- segregating in a given family is a prime determinant of the laboratory phenotype . 
by contrast , no such relationship could be discerned between laboratory phenotype and polymorphism genotype . . 
restoration of photoreceptor ultrastructure and function in retinal degeneration slow mice by gene therapy . 
the gene prph2 encodes a photoreceptor-specific membrane glycoprotein , peripherin-2 -lrb- also known as peripherin / rds -rrb- , which is inserted into the rims of photoreceptor outer segment discs in a complex with rom-1 -lrb- ref . 
_num1 -rrb- . 
the complex is necessary for the stabilization of the discs , which are renewed constantly throughout life , and which contain the visual pigments necessary for photon capture . 
mutations in prph2 have been shown to result in a variety of photoreceptor dystrophies , including autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa and macular dystrophy . 
a common feature of these diseases is the loss of photoreceptor function , also seen in the retinal degeneration slow -lrb- rds or prph2 rd2 / rd2 -rrb- mouse , which is homozygous for a null mutation in prph2 . 
it is characterized by a complete failure to develop photoreceptor discs and outer segments , downregulation of rhodopsin and apoptotic loss of photoreceptor cells . 
the electroretinograms -lrb- ergs -rrb- of prph2rd2 / rd2 mice have greatly diminished a-wave and b-wave amplitudes , which decline to virtually undetectable concentrations by two months . 
subretinal injection of recombinant adeno-associated virus -lrb- aav -rrb- encoding a prph2 transgene results in stable generation of outer segment structures and formation of new stacks of discs containing both perpherin-2 and rhodopsin , which in many cases are morphologically similar to normal outer segments . 
moreover , the re-establishment of the structural integrity of the photoreceptor layer also results in electrophysiological correction . 
these studies demonstrate for the first time that a complex ultrastructural cell defect can be corrected both morphologically and functionally by in vivo gene transfer . . 
phenylalanine hydroxylase gene haplotypes in polynesians : evolutionary origins and absence of alleles associated with severe phenylketonuria . 
a total of _num3 haplotypes for the phenylalanine hydroxylase -lrb- pah -rrb- gene locus were established in five groups of polynesians comprising samoans , tongans , cook islanders , maori , and niueans . 
considerable genetic continuity was demonstrated between these widely dispersed populations , since three common haplotypes -lrb- _num1 , _num1 , and _num1 -rrb- constituted over _num2 % of alleles . 
a control group of individuals from southeast asia shared the same major haplotypes , _num1 , _num1 , and _num1 , with polynesians . 
these data provide further support for the theories of genetic homogeneity and of asian affinities of the polynesian precursor populations . 
the absence of severe phenylketonuria -lrb- pku -rrb- in both polynesians and southeast asians is consistent with the lack of pah haplotypes _num1 and _num1 , on which the severe pku mutants have arisen among caucasians . . 
cdna microarrays detect activation of a myogenic transcription program by the pax3-fkhr fusion oncogene . 
alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma is an aggressive pediatric cancer of striated muscle characterized in _num2 % of cases by a t -lrb- _num1 ; _num2 -rrb- -lrb- _an ; _an -rrb- . 
this results in the fusion of pax3 , a developmental transcription factor required for limb myogenesis , with fkhr , a member of the forkhead family of transcription factors . 
the resultant pax3-fkhr gene possesses transforming properties ; however , the effects of this chimeric oncogene on gene expression are largely unknown . 
to investigate the actions of these transcription factors , both pax3 and pax3-fkhr were introduced into nih 3t3 cells , and the resultant gene expression changes were analyzed with a murine cdna microarray containing _num1 , _num3 elements . 
we found that pax3-fkhr but not pax3 activated a myogenic transcription program including the induction of transcription factors myod , myogenin , six1 , and slug as well as a battery of genes involved in several aspects of muscle function . 
notable among this group were the growth factor gene igf2 and its binding protein igfbp5 . 
relevance of this model was suggested by verification that three of these genes -lrb- igfbp5 , hsix1 , and slug -rrb- were also expressed in alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma cell lines . 
this study utilizes cdna microarrays to elucidate the pattern of gene expression induced by an oncogenic transcription factor and demonstrates the profound myogenic properties of pax3-fkhr in nih 3t3 cells . . 
re-evaluation of the sublocalization of esterase d and its relation to the retinoblastoma locus by in situ hybridization . 
in situ hybridization of a cdna probe for the esterase d gene -lrb- esd -rrb- was carried out on human chromosomes . 
the probe hybridized most strongly to 13q14 . 
_num1 and 13q14 . 
_num1 . 
this observation raises doubts concerning the most recently published assignment of esd to 13q14 . 
_num1 . 
a deletion in an individual with retinoblastoma was reported to separate the closely linked esd and retinoblastoma -lrb- rb1 -rrb- loci , placing esd proximal to rb1 . 
quantitative in situ hybridization studies of this deletion do not confirm this interpretation . 
rather , they suggest that esd is missing from the deleted chromosome _num2 and duplicated on the normal homolog . 
from these findings , we conclude that the deletion in this individual can not be used to determine the orientation nor the sublocalization of esd and rb1 within the 13q14 region . 
the dna double-strand break repair gene hmre11 is mutated in individuals with an ataxia-telangiectasia-like disorder . 
we show that hypomorphic mutations in hmre11 , but not in atm , are present in certain individuals with an ataxia-telangiectasia-like disorder -lrb- atld -rrb- . 
the cellular features resulting from these hmre11 mutations are similar to those seen in a-t as well as nbs and include hypersensitivity to ionizing radiation , radioresistant dna synthesis , and abrogation of atm-dependent events , such as the activation of jun kinase following exposure to gamma irradiation . 
although the mutant hmre11 proteins retain some ability to interact with hrad50 and nbs1 , formation of ionizing radiation-induced hmre11 and nbs1 foci was absent in hmre11 mutant cells . 
these data demonstrate that atm and the hmre11 / hrad50 / nbs1 protein complex act in the same dna damage response pathway and link hmre11 to the complex pathology of a-t . . 
duchenne muscular dystrophy gene expression in normal and diseased human muscle . 
a probe for the _num1 end of the duchenne muscular dystrophy -lrb- dmd -rrb- gene was used to study expression of the gene in normal human muscle , myogenic cell cultures , and muscle from patients with dmd . 
expression was found in rna from normal fetal muscle , adult cardiac and skeletal muscle , and cultured muscle after myoblast fusion . 
in dmd muscle , expression of this portion of the gene was also revealed by in situ rna hybridization , particularly in regenerating muscle fibers . . 
localisation of the becker muscular dystrophy gene on the short arm of the x chromosome by linkage to cloned dna sequences . 
a linkage study in _num2 becker muscular dystrophy -lrb- bmd -rrb- kindreds using three cloned dna sequences from the x chromosome which demonstrate restriction fragment length polymorphisms -lrb- rflps -rrb- , suggests that the bmd gene is located on the short arm of the x chromosome , in the _an region . 
the genes for becker and duchenne dystrophies must therefore be closely linked , if not allelic , and any future dna probes found to be of practical use in one disorder should be equally applicable to the other . 
the linkage analysis also provides data on the frequency of recombination along the short arm of the x chromosome , and across the centromeric region . . 
age of the intronic _ds triplet repeat expansion mutation in friedreich ataxia . 
friedreich ataxia -lrb- frda -rrb- , the most frequently inherited ataxia , is due in the vast majority of cases to a large expansion of an intronic _ds repeat . 
using linkage disequilibrium analysis based on haplotype data of seven polymorphic markers close to the frataxin gene , the age of frda founding mutational event -lrb- s -rrb- is estimated to be at least _num3 + / -203 generations -lrb- _num2 % confidence interval 564-801 g -rrb- , a dating which is consistent with little or no negative selection and provides further evidence for an ancient spread of a pre-mutation -lrb- at-risk alleles -rrb- in western europe . . 
the human magel2 gene and its mouse homologue are paternally expressed and mapped to the prader-willi region . 
prader-willi syndrome -lrb- pws -rrb- is a complex neurogenetic disorder . 
the phenotype is likely to be a contiguous gene syndrome involving genes which are paternally expressed only , located in the human 15q11-q13 region . 
four mouse models of pws have been reported but these do not definitively allow the delineation of the critical region and the associated genes involved in the aetiology of pws . 
moreover , targeted mutagenesis of mouse homologues of the human candidate pws genes does not appear to result in any of the features of pws . 
therefore , the isolation of new genes in this region remains crucial for a better understanding of the molecular basis of pws . 
in this manuscript , we report the characterization of magel2 and its mouse homologue magel2 . 
these are located in the human 15q11-q13 and mouse 7c regions , in close proximity to ndn / ndn . 
by northern blot analysis we did not detect any expression of magel2 / magel2 but by rt-pcr analysis , specific expression was detected in fetal and adult brain and in placenta . 
both genes are intronless with tandem direct repeat sequences contained within a cpg island in the 5-untranscribed region . 
the transcripts encode putative proteins that are homologous to the mage proteins and ndn . 
moreover , magel2 / magel2 are expressed only from the paternal allele in brain , suggesting a potential role in the aetiology of pws and its mouse model , respectively . . 
multiple origins for phenylketonuria in europe . 
phenylketonuria -lrb- pku -rrb- , a disorder of amino acid metabolism prevalent among caucasians and other ethnic groups , is caused primarily by a deficiency of the hepatic enzyme phenylalanine hydroxylase -lrb- pah -rrb- . 
pku is a highly heterogeneous disorder , with more than _num2 molecular lesions identified in the pah gene . 
the haplotype associations , relative frequencies , and distributions of five prevalent pah mutations -lrb- r158q , r261q , ivs10nt546 , r408w , and ivs12n1 -rrb- were established in a comprehensive european sample population and subsequently were examined to determine the potential roles of several genetic mechanisms in explaining the present distribution of the major pku alleles . 
each of these five mutations was strongly associated with only one of the more than _num2 chromosomal haplotypes defined by eight rflps in or near the pah gene . 
these findings suggest that each of these mutations arose through a single founding event that occurred within time periods ranging from several hundred to several thousand years ago . 
from the significant differences observed in the relative frequencies and distributions of these five alleles throughout europe , four of these putative founding events could be localized to specific ethnic subgroups . 
together , these data suggest that there were multiple , geographically and ethnically distinct origins for pku within the european population . . 
autoinhibition and activation mechanisms of the wiskott-aldrich syndrome protein . 
the rho-family gtpase , cdc42 , can regulate the actin cytoskeleton through activation of wiskott-aldrich syndrome protein -lrb- wasp -rrb- family members . 
activation relieves an autoinhibitory contact between the gtpase-binding domain and the carboxy-terminal region of wasp proteins . 
here we report the autoinhibited structure of the gtpase-binding domain of wasp , which can be induced by the c-terminal region or by organic co-solvents . 
in the autoinhibited complex , intramolecular interactions with the gtpase-binding domain occlude residues of the c terminus that regulate the arp2 / 3 actin-nucleating complex . 
binding of cdc42 to the gtpase-binding domain causes a dramatic conformational change , resulting in disruption of the hydrophobic core and release of the c terminus , enabling its interaction with the actin regulatory machinery . 
these data show that intrinsically unstructured peptides such as the gtpase-binding domain of wasp can be induced into distinct structural and functional states depending on context . . 
localisation of the gene for norrie disease to between dxs7 and dxs426 on xp . 
a highly informative microsatellite marker , dxs426 , which maps proximal to dxs7 in the interval xp11 . 
4-xp11 4-xp11 . 
_num2 , has been used to refine further the localisation of the gene for norrie disease -lrb- ndp -rrb- . 
the results from a multiply informative crossover localize the ndp gene proximal to dxs7 . 
in conjunction with information from _num1 ndp patients who have a deletion for dxs7 but not for dsx426 , our data indicate that the ndp gene lies between dxs7 and dxs426 on proximal xp . 
molecular basis of human mitochondrial very-long-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase deficiency causing cardiomyopathy and sudden death in childhood . 
beta-oxidation of long-chain fatty acids provides the major source of energy in the heart . 
defects in enzymes of the beta-oxidation pathway cause sudden , unexplained death in childhood , acute hepatic encephalopathy or liver failure , skeletal myopathy , and cardiomyopathy . 
very-long-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase -lsb- vlcad ; very-long-chain-acyl-coa -lrb- acceptor -rrb- _num1 , 3-oxidoreductase , ec _num1 . 
_num1 _num1 . 
_num2 _num2 . 
_num2 -rsb- catalyzes the first step in beta-oxidation . 
we have isolated the human vlcad cdna and gene and determined the complete nucleotide sequences . 
polymerase chain reaction amplification of vlcad mrna and genomic exons defined the molecular defects in two patients with vlcad deficiency who presented with unexplained cardiac arrest and cardiomyopathy . 
in one , a homozygous mutation in the consensus dinucleotide of the donor splice site -lrb- g + _num1 -- > a -rrb- was associated with universal skipping of the prior exon -lrb- exon _num2 -rrb- . 
the second patient was a compound heterozygote , with a missense mutation , _an -- > t , changing the arginine at residue _num3 to tryptophan on one allele and a single base deletion at the intron-exon _num1 boundary as the second mutation . 
this initial delineation of human mutations in vlcad suggests that vlcad deficiency reduces myocardial fatty acid beta-oxidation and energy production and is associated with cardiomyopathy and sudden death in childhood . 
an error in dystrophin mrna processing in golden retriever muscular dystrophy , an animal homologue of duchenne muscular dystrophy . 
golden retriever muscular dystrophy -lrb- grmd -rrb- is a spontaneous , x-linked , progressively fatal disease of dogs and is also a homologue of duchenne muscular dystrophy -lrb- dmd -rrb- . 
two-thirds of dmd patients carry detectable deletions in their dystrophin gene . 
the defect underlying the remaining one-third of dmd patients is undetermined . 
analysis of the canine dystrophin gene in normal and grmd dogs has failed to demonstrate any detectable loss of exons . 
here , we have demonstrated a rna processing error in grmd that results from a single base change in the _num1 consensus splice site of intron _num1 . 
the seventh exon is then skipped , which predicts a termination of the dystrophin reading frame within its n-terminal domain in exon _num1 . 
this is the first example of dystrophin deficiency caused by a splice-site mutation . . 
serum amyloid a and p protein genes in familial mediterranean fever . 
two recent studies have suggested the involvement of serum amyloid a -lrb- saa -rrb- and p -lrb- apcs -rrb- genes in familial mediterranean fever -lrb- mef -rrb- . 
to test the role of saa and apcs in mef and mef-amyloidosis , we studied _num2 informative families -lrb- _num2 armenians , _num1 non-ashkenazi jews -rrb- and _num1 mef patients with amyloidosis using a candidate gene approach . 
no evidence for any mef associated polymorphism was found in any of the _num2 armenian and jewish mef patients tested . 
our family studies allowed us to rule out tight linkage between saa and mef -lrb- lod score = -2 . 
_num2 , theta less than or equal to _num1 . 
_num2 -rrb- . 
for apcs we found that the allele frequency in the mef-amyloidosis patients was similar to that in _num2 unrelated mef patients without amyloidosis and their _num2 healthy parents . 
glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase variants from italian subjects associated with severe neonatal jaundice . 
screening for the g6pd deficiency was carried out at the maternity division of the galliera hospital in genoa , italy . 
two groups of subjects with hyperbilirubinaemia of non-immunological origin were examined -lrb- a -rrb- _num3 newborn babies of sardinian extraction -lrb- on cord blood -rrb- and -lrb- b -rrb- _num3 newborn babies of south italian ancestry -lrb- on peripheral blood -rrb- . 
among _num3 subjects , _num2 showed an enzyme deficiency ; in _num2 the defect was of the mediterranean type . 
in one case , previously described , the enzyme was of the a - type . 
in the remaining cases three different variants were identified . 
in the present work these three cases , each with severe neonatal jaundice , are reported . 
their parents originated from calabria , from sardinia and from sicily . 
the abnormal enzymes are respectively designated as gddcbrousse-like , gdgallura and gdagrigento . . 
loss of normal allele of the apc gene in an adrenocortical carcinoma from a patient with familial adenomatous polyposis . 
endocrine neoplasms have been reported occasionally in patients with familial adenomatous polyposis -lrb- fap -rrb- . 
an adrenocorotical carcinoma was studied in a patient with a family history of fap . 
loss of heterozygosity -lrb- loh -rrb- in the region close to the adenomatous polyposis coli -lrb- apc -rrb- gene was detected in this carcinoma , and evidence was obtained that there was a loss of the normal allele of the apc gene . 
this is the first demonstration of loh at the apc locus in adrenocortical tumors . 
the present results and our previous data on loh in a recurring desmoid tumor suggest that the heterozygous mutant / wild-type condition of the apc gene may give rise to benign tumors , and that functional loss of this gene leads to development of tumors not only in the colon but also in other various parts of the body in fap patients . . 
heterozygous c2-deficiency and myasthenia gravis . 
complement deficiency states in myasthenia gravis -lrb- mg -rrb- have not been reported previously . 
we describe a 19-year-old woman with typical mg and heterozygous c2 deficiency , along with hla typing of the patient and her immediate family . . 
large heterozygous deletion masquerading as homozygous missense mutation : a pitfall in diagnostic mutation analysis . 
the clinical use of molecular analyses in recessive disorders relies on the exact characterization of both mutant alleles in the affected patient . 
this can be problematic when only part of the gene is examined or when relevant dna alterations are not recognized by standard methods . 
we present a child in whom phenylketonuria was apparently caused by homozygosity for the mutation e390g in exon _num2 of the phenylalanine hydroxylase -lrb- pah -rrb- gene . 
however , the clinical severity of the disease was not quite as mild as expected , the mutation was not identified in the father despite confirmed paternity , and the paternal allele showed a highly unusual pattern of polymorphic markers in the pah gene . 
presence of a large deletion involving exons _num1 , _num2 and _num2 of the phenylalanine hydroxylase gene was confirmed by long-range pcr . 
diagnostic dna analyses should include a comprehensive examination of the whole relevant gene in the patient and confirmation of carrier status in both parents . . 
two point mutations are responsible for g6pd polymorphism in sardinia . 
the human x-linked gene encoding glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase -lrb- g6pd -rrb- is highly polymorphic ; more than _num3 g6pd variants have been identified . 
g6pd deficiency in different geographical areas appears to have arisen through independent mutational events , but within the same population it may also be heterogeneous . 
one example is the island of sardinia , where careful clinical and biochemical studies have identified four different g6pd variants . 
we cloned and sequenced the four g6pd variants from sardinia and found that only two mutations are responsible for g6pd deficiency in this area one mutation is the cause of the g6pd seattle-like phenotype , a milder form of g6pd deficiency ; the other mutation is responsible for all forms of very severe g6pd deficiency in sardinia and , possibly , in the mediterranean . . 
familial discoid lupus erythematosus associated with heterozygote c2 deficiency . 
two siblings with chronic discoid lupus erythematosus and several family members were found with heterozygous c2 deficiency . 
an association with histocompatibility markers hla-b18 and hla-dw2 was demonstrated , and the slow allotype of factor b was present . 
linkage studies in this family suggested a close linkage between the c2 deficiency gene and genes coding for _an , dw2 , and bfs antigens . 
one hla-acb / dbf recombinant was observed showing closer linkage between hla-d and bf than between hla-b and bf . . 
a strong candidate for the breast and ovarian cancer susceptibility gene brca1 . 
a strong candidate for the 17q-linked brca1 gene , which influences susceptibility to breast and ovarian cancer , has been identified by positional cloning methods . 
probable predisposing mutations have been detected in five of eight kindreds presumed to segregate brca1 susceptibility alleles . 
the mutations include an 11-base pair deletion , a 1-base pair insertion , a stop codon , a missense substitution , and an inferred regulatory mutation . 
the brca1 gene is expressed in numerous tissues , including breast and ovary , and encodes a predicted protein of _num4 amino acids . 
this protein contains a zinc finger domain in its amino-terminal region , but is otherwise unrelated to previously described proteins . 
identification of brca1 should facilitate early diagnosis of breast and ovarian cancer susceptibility in some individuals as well as a better understanding of breast cancer biology . . 
recombinations in individuals homozygous by descent localize the friedreich ataxia locus in a cloned 450-kb interval . 
the locus for friedreich ataxia -lrb- frda -rrb- , a severe neurodegenerative disease , is tightly linked to markers d9s5 and d9s15 , and analysis of rare recombination events has suggested the order cen-frda-d9s5-d9s15-qter . 
we report here the construction of a yac contig extending _num3 kb centromeric to d9s5 and the isolation of five new microsatellite markers from this region . 
in order to map these markers with respect to the frda locus , all within a 1-cm confidence interval , we sought to increase the genetic information of available frda families by considering homozygosity by descent and association with founder haplotypes in isolated populations . 
this approach allowed us to identify one phase-known recombination and one probable historic recombination on haplotypes from reunion island patients , both of which place three of the five markers proximal to frda . 
this represents the first identification of close frda flanking markers on the centromeric side . 
the two other markers allowed us to narrow the breakpoint of a previously identified distal recombination that is > _num3 kb from d9s5 -lrb- 26p -rrb- . 
taken together , the results place the frda locus in a 450-kb interval , which is small enough for direct search of candidate genes . 
a detailed rare cutter restriction map and a cosmid contig covering this interval were constructed and should facilitate the search of genes in this region . . 
further mapping of an ataxia-telangiectasia locus to the chromosome 11q23 region . 
we recently mapped the gene for ataxia-telangiectasia group a -lrb- _ds -rrb- to chromosome 11q22-23 by linkage analysis , using the genetic markers thy1 and pynb3 . 
_num2 -lrb- d11s144 -rrb- . 
the most likely order was cent-at-s144-thy1 . 
the present paper describes further mapping of the _ds locus by means of a panel of _num2 markers that span approximately _num2 cm in the 11q22-23 region centered around _an and thy1 . 
location scores indicate that three contiguous subsegments within the -lsb- s144-thy1 -rsb- segment , as well as three contiguous segments telomeric to thy1 , are each unlikely to contain the _ds locus , while the more centromeric -lsb- stmy-s144 -rsb- segment is most likely to contain the _ds locus . 
these data , together with recent refinements in the linkage and physical maps of 11q22-23 , place the _ds locus at 11q23 . 
proliferation-related expression of p19 / nm23 nucleoside diphosphate kinase . 
high level expression of the nm23-h1 gene , which encodes for a nucleoside diphosphate kinase , has been found to correlate with diminished metastasis in some tumors but not in others . 
we have previously identified the protein product of the nm23-h1 gene in two-dimensional electrophoretic gels and have designated it p19 / nm23 . 
in neuroblastoma , higher levels of p19 / nm23 , which are associated with amplification of the n-myc oncogene , large tumor mass , and metastasis , were observed in advanced stage tumors compared with limited stage disease . 
because of the variable expression of nm23-h1 in different tumors , we have investigated the relationship between amounts of the protein and cell proliferation . 
the levels of p19 / nm23 were compared between resting and mitotically stimulated normal human pbls and in leukemia cells . 
the amount of p19 / nm23 increased in normal lymphocytes in response to mitotic stimulation and paralleled the increase in dna synthesis . 
in leukemia cells obtained from patients with different subtypes of acute leukemia , p19 / nm23 levels were also increased relative to resting normal lymphocytes . 
treatment of mitotically stimulated lymphocytes with cyclosporin , which inhibits proliferation , blocked the increase in p19 / nm23 ; treatment of the leukemia cell line hl-60 with dimethylsulfoxide , which induces terminal differentiation , resulted in diminished levels of p19 / nm23 . 
our data therefore provide evidence that nm23-h1 expression is related to cell proliferative activity . . 
carrier detection of pyruvate carboxylase deficiency in fibroblasts and lymphocytes . 
pyruvate carboxylase -lrb- e. c. _num1 . 
_num1 . 
_num1 . 
_num1 -rrb- activity was determined in the circulating peripheral lymphocytes and cultured skin fibroblasts from the family of a patient with hepatic , cerebral , renal cortical , leukocyte , and fibroblast pyruvate carboxylase deficiency -lrb- pc portland deficiency -rrb- . 
lymphocyte activities were mother , _num2 -- _num2 % ; father , _num2 -- _num2 % ; brother , _num2 -- _num3 % ; and sister , _num2 -- _num2 % of the lowest normal . 
fibroblasts from the patients mother and father had _num2 and _num2 % , respectively , of the activity of the lowest normal . 
these data demonstrate that the disease is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner and that lymphocytes and fibroblasts can be used to detect carriers . 
neither pyruvate carboxylase nor mitochondrial pepck activity in lymphocytes was increased by a 21-hr fast . 
complex glycerol kinase deficiency : molecular-genetic , cytogenetic , and clinical studies of five japanese patients . 
five male japanese patients with complex glycerol kinase deficiency -lrb- cgkd -rrb- and their relatives were studied clinically , cytogenetically , and molecular-genetically . 
all patients had muscular dystrophy or muscle weakness , mental retardation , congenital adrenal hypoplasia , and glycerol kinase deficiency . 
high-resolution gtg-banded chromosomes showed a microdeletion in the xp21 region in all four patients examined and in all five mothers . 
southern hybridizations , after digestions by restriction endonucleases , with various cloned dnas -lrb- d2 , 99-6 , _an , c7 , l1-4 , cdmd13-14 , j66-hi , _an , j-bir , ert87-30 , ert87-15 , ert87-8 , ert87-1 , xj-1 . 
_num1 , _num3 , cx5 . 
_num1 , and otc-1 -rrb- that are located around xp21 also showed a deletion in the genome of all patients and mothers . 
although the deletion differed in size among patients , a segment commonly absent was located between the genomic sequences corresponding to l1-4 and cdmd13-14 . 
this finding indicated that the gene coding for glycerol kinase -lrb- gk -rrb- is located within this segment . 
a comparison of the clinical manifestations of the present five patients and reported cgkd or duchenne muscular dystrophy -lrb- dmd -rrb- patients with dna deletion suggests the existence of a certain gene responsible for gonadotropin deficiency -lrb- gtd -rrb- . 
the result of the present study and results of previous studies suggest that genes for ornithine transcarbamylase -lrb- otc -rrb- , dmd , and gk and putative genes responsible for congenital adrenal hypoplasia -lrb- ahc -rrb- and gtd are arranged from telomere to centromere as pter -- gtd -- ahc -- gk -- dmd -- otc -- cen duchenne muscular dystrophy and myotonic dystrophy in the same patient . 
we report on the first patient identified with myotonic dystrophy and duchenne muscular dystrophy -lrb- dmd -rrb- . 
the family of the propositus had a strong history of myotonic dystrophy , and there was an intrafamilial pathological expansion of the responsible _ds repeat between the mildly affected mother -lrb- _num3 repeats ; normal _num2 repeats -rrb- and her more severely affected son -lrb- _num3 repeats -rrb- , and his sister -lrb- _num3 repeats -rrb- . 
the propositus was an isolated case of duchenne muscular dystrophy with marked dystrophin deficiency in muscle biopsy . 
the patient was still ambulatory post age _num2 . 
myotonic dystrophy could interfere to some extent with the progression of duchenne dystrophy . 
however , other interpretations are possible . 
twelve percent of dystrophin revertant fibers as observed by immunohistochemistry could be sufficient to ameliorate typical dmd clinical severity , or the patient may present a somatic mosaic . 
the pathophysiological interactions of these two unlinked disorders are discussed at the clinical and histopathological levels . . 
autosomal recessive transmission of hemophilia a due to a von willebrand factor mutation . 
the differential diagnosis of the genetic bleeding disorders , hemophilia a and von willebrand disease , is occasionally confounded by the close molecular relationship of coagulation factor viii and von willebrand factor -lrb- vwf -rrb- . 
this report describes the autosomal inheritance of a hemophilia a phenotype due to a mutation of vwf that results in defective factor viii binding . 
the proband was a female patient with low levels of factor viii activity . 
polymerase chain reaction -lrb- pcr -rrb- amplification and dna sequencing were employed to examine exons encoding the putative factor viii binding domain of vwf . 
the patient was found to be homozygous for a single point mutation causing a thr -- > met substitution at amino acid position _num2 in the mature vwf subunit . 
the phenotypic expression of the mutation was determined to be recessive because heterozygous family members were clinically unaffected . 
recombinant vwf containing the observed amino acid substitution was expressed in cos-1 cells . 
the mutant vwf was processed and secreted normally , and was functionally equivalent to wild-type vwf in its ability to bind to platelets . 
however , the mutant failed to bind factor viii , demonstrating that the mutation was functionally related to the observed hemophilia phenotype . 
the family we describe demonstrates the recessive inheritance of a recently recognized class of genetic bleeding disorders , we call '' autosomal hemophilia . '' 
we conclude that vwf mutation may be an under recognized cause of hemophilia , especially in cases where the inheritance pattern is not consistent with x-linked transmission . 
determination of _num2 x-linked adrenoleukodystrophy mutations , including _num2 not previously described . 
x-linked adrenoleukodystrophy -lrb- x-ald -rrb- is the most frequent peroxisomal disease . 
it mainly involves the nervous system white matter , adrenal cortex and testes . 
several distinct clinical phenotypes are known . 
the principal biochemical abnormality is the accumulation of saturated very-long-chain fatty acids -lrb- vlcfas > _an _num1 , mainly _an _num1 -rrb- , which is due to impaired capacity for beta-oxidation in peroxisomes . 
diagnosis is usually based on the vlcfa levels in plasma or cultured skin fibroblasts in both patients and carriers . 
in _num1 . 
_num1 % of affected males , however , the plasma _an _num1 level is borderline normal , and _num2 % of obligate female carriers have normal results . 
effective mutation detection in these families is therefore fundamental to unambiguously determine the genetic status of each individual at risk . 
of particular concern are female members of kindreds segregating x-ald mutations , because normal vlcfa levels do not guarantee lack of carrier status . 
we describe a fast method for detection of x-ald mutations . 
the method is based on sscp analysis of nested pcr fragments followed by sequence-determination reactions . 
using this methodology we have found x-ald mutations in _num2 kindreds , including _num2 not previously reported . 
mutations in the brca1 gene in families with early-onset breast and ovarian cancer . 
we analysed _num2 probands with a family history of breast and / or ovarian cancer for germline mutations in the coding region of the brca1 candidate gene , using single-strand conformation polymorphism -lrb- sscp -rrb- analysis on pcr-amplified genomic dna . 
a total of eight putative disease-causing alterations were identified four of these are frameshifts and two are nonsense mutations . 
in addition , we found two missense mutations , one of which changes the final cysteine of the brca1 zinc finger motif to glycine . 
these data are consistent with a tumour suppressor model , and support the notion that this candidate gene is in fact brca1 . 
the heterogeneity of mutations , coupled with the large size of the gene , indicates that clinical application of brca1 mutation testing will be technically challenging . . 
screening for carriers of tay-sachs disease among ashkenazi jews . 
a comparison of dna-based and enzyme-based tests . 
background and methods . 
the prevention of tay-sachs disease -lrb- gm2 gangliosidosis , type _num1 -rrb- depends on the identification of carriers of the gene for this autosomal recessive disorder . 
we compared the enzyme-based test widely used in screening for tay-sachs disease with a test based on analysis of dna . 
we developed methods to detect the three mutations in the hexa gene that occur with high frequency among ashkenazi jews two mutations cause infantile tay-sachs disease , and the third causes the adult-onset form of the disease . 
dna segments containing these mutation sites were amplified with the polymerase chain reaction and analyzed for the presence of the mutations . 
results . 
among _num2 ashkenazi obligate carriers of tay-sachs disease , the three specific mutations accounted for all but one of the mutant alleles -lrb- _num2 percent -rrb- . 
in _num3 ashkenazi carriers identified by the enzyme test , dna analysis showed that _num3 -lrb- _num2 percent -rrb- had one of the identified mutations . 
of the _num3 , _num2 percent had the exon _num2 insertion mutation , _num2 percent had the intron _num2 splice-junction mutation , and _num1 percent had the less severe exon _num1 mutation associated with adult-onset disease . 
the results of the enzyme tests in the _num2 subjects -lrb- _num2 percent -rrb- who were defined as carriers but in whom dna analysis did not identify a mutant allele were probably false positive -lrb- although there remains some possibility of unidentified mutations -rrb- . 
in addition , of _num3 persons defined as noncarriers by the enzyme-based test , _num1 was identified as a carrier by dna analysis -lrb- i. e e. , a false negative enzyme-test result -rrb- . 
conclusions . 
the increased specificity and predictive value of the dna-based test make it a useful adjunct to the diagnostic tests currently used to screen for carriers of tay-sachs disease . 
adrenoleukodystrophy gene encodes an _num2 kda membrane protein . 
an antibody against the synthetic c-terminal peptides deduced from the cdna of the gene responsible for x-linked adrenoleukodystrophy -lrb- ald -rrb- was produced to characterize the product of the ald gene . 
the antibody reacted with the _num2 kda band protein in control fibroblasts , while no bands were detected in the fibroblasts from a patient with ald -lrb- # _num3 -rrb- , in which mrna of the ald gene was undetectable based on northern blot analysis . 
the 293t cells transfected with the full-coding cdna inserted in the expression vector produced a new _num2 kda protein , as detected by western blot . 
in an immunocytological study , the staining was in a punctate pattern , in the normal fibroblasts . 
however , there was no punctate staining in the # _num3 cells . 
these data thus indicate that the ald gene encodes an _num2 kda membrane protein . . 
preferential germline mutation of the paternal allele in retinoblastoma . 
the event triggering malignant proliferation in _num2 % of retinoblastoma tumours is loss of heterozygosity for chromosome 13q14 , whereby the normal retinoblastoma gene -lrb- rb1 -rrb- allele is lost and an already mutated rb1 allele remains in the tumour . 
the first allele suffers a mutational event -- deletion , duplication or point mutation -lrb- manuscript in preparation -rrb- -- either in the germ line -lrb- all bilateral patients -rrb- or in a somatic retinal cell -lrb- most unilateral patients -rrb- . 
most bilateral patients have no family history of retinoblastoma and are presumed to have new germline mutations which arose in the egg , sperm or early embryo . 
we have determined the parental origin of the retained allele in nine retinoblastoma tumours from eight unrelated non-familial cases by using rb1-linked genetic markers . 
six tumours retained the paternal allele and three retained the maternal allele . 
of the three unilateral tumours , only one retained the paternal rb1 allele . 
thus , there is no evidence that the paternal rb1 allele is preferentially retained in retinoblastoma , as has been suggested to be the case in osteosarcoma . 
by contrast , tumours from four of the five bilateral patients retained the paternal rb1 allele . 
this suggests either that new germline rb1 mutations arise more frequently during spermatogenesis than during oogenesis , or that imprinting in the early embryo affects chromosomal susceptibility to mutation . . 
mutations at the ataxia-telangiectasia locus and clinical phenotypes of a-t patients . 
mutations at the ataxia-telangiectasia -lrb- a-t -rrb- locus on chromosome band 11q22 cause a distinctive autosomal recessive syndrome in homozygotes and predispose heterozygotes to cancer , ischemic heart disease , and early mortality . 
pcr amplification from genomic dna and automated sequencing of the entire coding region -lrb- _num2 exons -rrb- and splice junctions detected _num2 mutations -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- in _num2 a-t chromosomes . 
heteroduplex analysis detected another _num2 mutations at the a-t locus . 
out of a total of _num2 unique mutations , _num2 were found only in a single family , and _num2 had not been reported previously . 
most -lrb- 58 / 71 , _num2 % -rrb- mutations were frameshift and nonsense mutations that are predicted to cause truncation of the a-t protein ; the less common mutation types were missense -lrb- 9 / 71 , _num2 % -rrb- , splicing -lrb- 3 / 71 , _num1 % -rrb- and one in-frame deletion , _num4 _num1 -lrb- 1 / 71 , _num1 % -rrb- . 
the mean survival and height distribution of _num3 a-t patients correlated significantly with the specific mutations present in the patients . 
patients homozygous for a single truncating mutation , typically near the n-terminal end of the gene , or heterozygous for the in-frame deletion _num4 _num1 , were shorter and had significantly shorter survival than those heterozygous for a splice site or missense mutation , or heterozygous for two truncating mutations . 
alterations of the length or amino acid composition of the a-t gene product affect the a-t clinical phenotype in different ways . 
mutation analysis at the a-t locus may help estimate the prognosis of a-t patients . . 
anticipation resulting in elimination of the myotonic dystrophy gene : a follow up study of one extended family . 
we have re-examined an extended myotonic dystrophy -lrb- dm -rrb- family , previously described in _num4 , in order to study the long term effects of anticipation in dm and in particular the implications for families affected by this disease . 
this follow up study provides data on _num2 gene carriers and _num2 asymptomatic at risk family members in five generations . 
clinical anticipation , defined as the cascade of mild , adult , childhood , or congenital disease in subsequent generations , appeared to be a relentless process , occurring in all affected branches of the family . 
the cascade was found to proceed asynchronously in the different branches , mainly because of an unequal number of generations with mild disease . 
the transition from the mild to the adult type was associated with transmission through a male parent . 
stable transmission of the asymptomatic / mild phenotype showed a female transmission bias . 
we further examined the extent and causes of gene loss in this pedigree . 
gene loss in the patient group was complete , owing to infertility of the male patients with adult onset disease and the fact that mentally retarded patients did not procreate . 
out of the _num2 at risk subjects in the two youngest generations , only one was found to have a full mutation . 
this is the only subject who may transmit the gene to the sixth generation . 
no protomutation carriers were found in the fourth and fifth generations . 
therefore it is highly probable that the dm gene will be eliminated from this pedigree within one generation . 
the high population frequency of dm can at present not be explained by the contribution of asymptomatic cases in the younger generations of known families , but is probably caused by the events in the ancestral generations . . 
exon _num1 mutations in the wt1 gene , without influencing kts splice isoforms , are also responsible for frasier syndrome . 
we report new mutations in exon _num1 of the wt1 gene that did not alter the ratio of + / - kts splice isoforms in two unrelated patients with frasier syndrome -lrb- fs -rrb- . 
the mutation of intron _num1 inducing defective alternative splicing was reported to be responsible for this syndrome . 
the mutations found in our cases occurred in the same exon of the wt1 gene as detected in denys-drash syndrome -lrb- dds -rrb- and could not be explained by the previously proposed mechanism . 
the results suggest that the two syndromes originate from the same wt1 gene abnormality . 
from a molecular biological point of view , we concluded that the two diseases were not separable , and that fs should be included as an atypical form of dds . . 
deficit of in vivo mitochondrial atp production in patients with friedreich ataxia . 
friedreich ataxia -lrb- frda -rrb- , the most common of the inherited ataxias , is an autosomal recessive degenerative disorder , characterized clinically by onset before the age of _num2 of progressive gait and limb ataxia , absence of deep tendon reflexes , extensor plantar responses , and loss of position and vibration sense in the lower limbs . 
frda is caused by a _ds triplet expansion in the first intron of the frda gene on chromosome 9q13 in _num2 % of patients . 
the frda gene encodes a widely expressed 210-aa protein , frataxin , which is located in mitochondria and is severely reduced in frda patients . 
frataxin function is still unknown but the knockout of the yeast frataxin homologue gene -lrb- yfh1 -rrb- showed a severe defect of mitochondrial respiration and loss of mtdna associated with elevated intramitochondrial iron . 
here we report in vivo evidence of impaired mitochondrial respiration in skeletal muscle of frda patients . 
using phosphorus magnetic resonance spectroscopy we demonstrated a maximum rate of muscle mitochondrial atp production -lrb- v -lrb- max -rrb- -rrb- below the normal range in all _num2 frda patients and a strong negative correlation between mitochondrial v -lrb- max -rrb- and the number of _ds repeats in the smaller allele . 
our results show that frda is a nuclear-encoded mitochondrial disorder affecting oxidative phosphorylation and give a rationale for treatments aimed to improve mitochondrial function in this condition . . 
chronic nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia -lrb- cnsha -rrb- and glucose _num1 phosphate dehydrogenase -lrb- g6pd -rrb- deficiency in a patient with familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy -lrb- fap -rrb- . 
molecular study of a new variant -lrb- g6pd clinic -rrb- with markedly acidic ph optimum . 
a new glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase -lrb- g6pd -rrb- variant with severe erythrocytic g6pd deficiency and a unique ph optimum is described in a young patient with chronic nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia -lrb- cnsha -rrb- and familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy -lrb- fap -rrb- . 
chronic hemolysis was present in the absence of infections , oxidant drugs or ingestion of faba beans . 
residual enzyme activity was about _num1 . 
_num1 % and _num2 % of normal activity in erythrocytes and leucocytes , respectively . 
a molecular study using standard methods showed g6pd in the patient to have normal electrophoretic mobility -lrb- at ph _num1 . 
_num1 , _num1 . 
_num1 and _num1 . 
_num1 -rrb- , normal apparent affinity for substrates -lrb- km , g6p and nadp -rrb- and a slightly abnormal utilization of substrate analogues -lrb- decreased deamino-nadp and increased 2-deoxyglucose-6-phosphate utilization -rrb- . 
heat stability was found to be markedly decreased -lrb- _num1 % of residual activity after _num2 min of incubation at _num2 degrees c -rrb- and a particular characteristic of this enzyme was a biphasic ph curve with a greatly increased activity at low ph. although molecular characteristics of this variant closely resemble those of g6pd bangkok and g6pd duarte , it can be distinguished from these and all other previously reported variants by virtue of its unusual ph curve . 
therefore the present variant has been designated g6pd clinic to distinguish it from other g6pd variants previously described regional localization of polymorphic dna loci on the proximal long arm of the x chromosome using deletions associated with choroideremia . 
in two unrelated families , males have been identified who suffer from choroideremia and at the same time have an interstitial deletion on the proximal long arm of the x chromosome . 
by high-resolution banding we have characterized the deletion chromosomes as del -lrb- x -rrb- -lrb- _an . 
1-q21 1-q21 . 
_num2 -rrb- and del -lrb- x -rrb- -lrb- _an . 
2-q21 2-q21 . 
_num2 -rrb- respectively . 
by southern blot analysis we have mapped ten different polymorphic dna loci relative to the position of the deletion and the choroideremia locus tcd . 
one probe , _an , was shown to cover one of the breakpoints of the smallest deletion . 
the following order of the loci was suggested by deletion mapping cen-dxs106-dxs72-tcd - -lrb- dxys1 / dxys23 / dxys5 -rrb- - dxys2 - -lrb- dxys12 / dxs3 -rrb- - -lrb- dxs17 / dxs101 -rrb- - xqter . 
a de novo unbalanced reciprocal translocation identified as paternal in origin in the prader-willi syndrome . 
interstitial cytogenetic deletions involving the paternally derived chromosome 15q11-13 have been described in patients with the prader-willi syndrome -lrb- pws -rrb- . 
we report a child with pws and a de novo unbalanced karyotype -45 , xy , -9 , -15 , + der -lrb- _num1 -rrb- t -lrb- _num1 ; _num2 -rrb- -lrb- _an ; _an -rrb- . 
molecular studies with the dna probe pml34 confirmed that only a single prader willi critical region -lrb- pwcr 15q11 . 
2-q12 -rrb- copy was present . 
hybridisation of patient and parental dna with the multi-allelic probe cmw1 , which maps to pter-15q13 , showed that the chromosome involved in the translocation was paternal in origin . 
this is the first example of a paternally-derived pwcr allele loss caused by an unbalanced translocation that has arisen de novo . 
clinicopathologic features of brca-linked and sporadic ovarian cancer . 
context most hereditary ovarian cancers are associated with germline mutations in brca1 or brca2 . 
attempts to define the clinical significance of brca mutation status in ovarian cancer have produced conflicting results , especially regarding survival . 
objective to determine whether hereditary ovarian cancers have distinct clinical and pathological features compared with sporadic -lrb- nonhereditary -rrb- ovarian cancers . 
design and setting retrospective cohort study of a consecutive series of _num3 ovarian cancers diagnosed and treated at our institution , which is a comprehensive cancer center as designated by the national cancer institute , over a 12-year period -lrb- december _num4 to august _num4 -rrb- . 
patients the study was restricted to patients of jewish origin because of the ease of brca1 and brca2 genotyping in this ethnic group . 
from the _num3 patients who identified themselves as jewish , _num2 hereditary cases were identified with the presence of a germline founder mutation in brca1 or brca2 . 
the remaining _num3 cases from the same series not associated with a brca mutation and _num1 additional groups -lrb- gynecologic oncology group protocols _num2 and _num3 -rrb- with ovarian cancer from clinical trials -lrb- for the survival analysis -rrb- were included for comparison . 
main outcome measures age at diagnosis , surgical stage , histologic cell type and grade , and surgical outcome ; and response to chemotherapy and survival for advanced-stage -lrb- ii and iv -rrb- cases . 
results hereditary cancers were rarely diagnosed before age _num2 years and were common after age _num2 years , with mean age at diagnosis being significantly younger for brca1 - vs brca2-linked patients -lrb- _num2 vs _num2 years ; p = . 
_num2 -rrb- . 
histology , grade , stage , and success of cytoreductive surgery were similar for hereditary and sporadic cases . 
the hereditary group had a longer disease-free interval following primary chemotherapy in comparison with the nonhereditary group , with a median time to recurrence of _num2 months and _num1 months , respectively -lrb- p < . 
_num3 -rrb- . 
those with hereditary cancers had improved survival compared with the nonhereditary group -lrb- p = . 
_num3 -rrb- . 
for stage iii cancers , brca mutation status was an independent prognostic variable -lrb- p = . 
_num2 -rrb- . 
conclusions although brca-associated hereditary ovarian cancers in this population have surgical and pathological characteristics similar to those of sporadic cancers , advanced-stage hereditary cancer patients survive longer than nonhereditary cancer patients . 
age penetrance is greater for brca1-linked than for brca2-linked cancers in this population . 
germline intronic and exonic mutations in the wilms ' tumour gene -lrb- wt1 -rrb- affecting urogenital development . 
denys-drash syndrome is a rare human developmental disorder affecting the urogenital system and leading to renal failure , intersex disorders and wilms tumour . 
in this report , four individuals with this syndrome are described carrying germline point mutations in the wilms tumour suppressor gene , wt1 . 
three of these mutations were in the zinc finger domains of wt1 . 
the fourth occurred within intron _num1 , preventing splicing at one of the alternatively chosen splice donor sites of exon _num1 when assayed in vitro . 
these results provide genetic evidence for distinct functional roles of the wt1 isoforms in urogenital development . . 
analysis of deletions in dna from patients with becker and duchenne muscular dystrophy . 
duchenne muscular dystrophy -lrb- dmd -rrb- is an x-linked recessive genetic disorder for which the biochemical defect is as yet unknown . 
recently , two cloned segments of human x-chromosome dna have been described which detect structural alterations within or near the genetic locus responsible for the disorder . 
both of these cloned segments were described as tightly linked to the locus and were capable of detecting deletions in the dna of boys affected with dmd . 
in an attempt to determine more precisely the occurrence of these deletions within a large population of dmd patients and the accuracy of one of the segments , dxs164 -lrb- pert87 -rrb- , in determining the inheritance of the dmd x chromosome , the subclones _num1 , _num1 and _num2 were made available to many investigators throughout the world . 
here we describe the combined results of more than _num2 research laboratories with respect to the occurrence of deletions at the dxs164 locus in dna samples isolated from patients with dmd and becker muscular dystrophy -lrb- bmd -rrb- . 
the results indicate that the dxs164 locus apparently recombines with dmd _num1 % of the time , but is probably located between independent sites of mutation which yield dmd . 
the breakpoints of some deletions are delineated within the dxs164 locus , and it is evident that the deletions at the dmd locus are frequent and extremely large . . 
additional case of female monozygotic twins discordant for the clinical manifestations of duchenne muscular dystrophy due to opposite x-chromosome inactivation . 
a pair of female monozygotic -lrb- mz -rrb- twins , heterozygous carriers for a deletion in the dmd gene and discordant for the clinical manifestations of duchenne muscular dystrophy , were analyzed by molecular studies , in situ hybridization , and methylation pattern of x chromosomes to search for opposite x inactivation as an explanation of their clinical discordance . 
results in lymphocytes and skin fibroblast cell lines suggest a partial mirror inactivation with the normal x chromosome preferentially active in the unaffected twin , and the maternal deleted x chromosome preferentially active in the affected twin . 
a review shows that mz female twins discordant for x-linked diseases are not uncommon . 
twinning and x inactivation may be interrelated and could explain the female twins discordant for x-linked traits . . 
analbuminemia in a neonate . 
a small-for-gestational-age infant , found to have analbuminemia in the neonatal period , is reported and the twelve cases recorded in the world literature are reviewed . 
patients lacking this serum protein are essentially asymptomatic , apart from minimal ankle edema and ease of fatigue . 
apparent compensatory mechanisms which come into play when serum albumin is low include prolonged half-life of albumin and transferrin , an increase in serum globulins , beta lipoprotein , and glycoproteins , arterial hypotension with reduced capillary hydrostatic pressure , and the ability to respond with rapid sodium and chloride diuresis in response to small volume changes . 
examination of plasma amino acids , an investigation not previously reported , revealed an extremely low plasma tryptophan level , a finding which may be important in view of the role of tryptophan in albumin synthesis . . 
homozygous presence of the crossover -lrb- fusion gene -rrb- mutation identified in a type ii gaucher disease fetus : is this analogous to the gaucher knock-out mouse model ? 
gaucher disease -lrb- gd -rrb- is an inherited deficiency of beta-glucocerebrosidase -lrb- ec _num1 . 
_num1 . 
_num1 . 
_num2 , gene symbol gba -rrb- . 
in type i gd , the cns is not involved -lrb- nonneuronopathic -rrb- , whereas in type ii gd -lrb- acute neuronopathic -rrb- cns involvement is early and rapidly progressive , while in type iii gd -lrb- subacute neuronopathic -rrb- cns involvement occurs later and is slowly progressive . 
the t6433c -lrb- l444p -rrb- substitution is prevalent in type gd ii . 
it may occur alone as a single base-pair mutation but often is found as part of a complex allele containing additional gba nucleotide substitutions , g6468c -lrb- a456p -rrb- and g6482c -lrb- v460v -rrb- , without -lrb- recncii -rrb- or with -lrb- rectl -rrb- g5957c -lrb- d409h -rrb- . 
this complex allele is presumed to have formed by recombination -lrb- crossover , fusion -rrb- of the structural gene with the pseudogene , which contains the mutated sequences . 
two complex alleles have never been demonstrated to coexist in any individual . 
we devised a selective pcr method for the specific amplification of the normal and / or fusion gene . 
using this procedure we demonstrated the fusion gene in homozygous form for the first time , in a macedonian / ashkenazi jewish gd type ii fetus . 
both parents were carriers of the recombination . 
this was confirmed by direct sequence analysis . 
a previous conceptus in this family was stillborn at _num2 weeks , with features of severe type ii gd . 
neonates showing a severe clinical phenotype , analogous to the early neonatal lethal disease occurring in mice homozygous for a null allele produced by targeted disruption of gba , have been described elsewhere , but the specific mutations in these cases have not yet been characterized . 
-lrb- abstract truncated _ds _num3 words -rrb- decrease in gtp cyclohydrolase i gene expression caused by inactivation of one allele in hereditary progressive dystonia with marked diurnal fluctuation . 
hereditary progressive dystonia with marked diurnal fluctuation -lrb- hpd ; dopa-responsive dystonia , drd -rrb- have been recently found to be caused by a genetic defect in the gtp cyclohydrolase i -lrb- gch1 -rrb- gene . 
in this study , we quantified the mrna level of gch1 in phytohemagglutinin -lrb- pha -rrb- - stimulated mononuclear blood cells from one japanese family that do not have a mutation in the coding region or splice junctions of the gene . 
the results showed that the amounts of the gch1 mrna were decreased to about _num2 % of the normal level in both patients and carriers . 
in addition , we found that the gch1 mrna was transcribed from only one allele , indicating that the other allele was in an inactive state . 
these results suggest that some novel mutations should exist on one of the alleles in some unknown region of the gch1 gene , and may decrease the gch1 mrna causing the hpd / drd symptoms . . 
novel mutations in the wiskott-aldrich syndrome protein gene and their effects on transcriptional , translational , and clinical phenotypes . 
wiskott-aldrich syndrome -lrb- was -rrb- is an x-linked recessive immunodeficiency characterized by thrombocytopenia , eczema , and recurrent infections , and caused by mutations in the was protein -lrb- wasp -rrb- gene . 
wasp contains several functional domains through which it interacts with proteins involved in intracellular signaling and regulation of the actin cytoskeleton . 
in this report , _num2 wasp gene mutations were identified , _num2 of which are novel . 
dna of affected males and obligate carriers was pcr amplified and analyzed by ssca , heteroduplex analysis , and direct sequencing . 
the effects of the mutations at the mrna and protein level were ascertained by rt-pcr and western blot analyses . 
all missense mutations were located in exons 1-4 . 
most of the nonsense , frameshift and splice site mutations were found in exons 6-11 . 
mutations that alter splice sites led to the synthesis of several types of mrnas , a fraction of which represented the normally spliced product . 
the presence of normally spliced transcripts was correlated with a milder phenotype . 
when one such case was studied by western blotting , reduced amounts of normal-size wasp were present . 
in other cases as well , a correlation was found between the amount of normal or mutant wasp present and the phenotypes of the affected individuals . 
no protein was detected in two individuals with severe was . 
reduced levels of a normal-size wasp with a missense mutation were seen in two individuals with xlt . 
it is concluded that mutation analysis at the dna level is not sufficient for predicting clinical course . 
studies at the transcript and protein level are needed for a better assessment . . 
incidence and characteristics of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase variants in japan . 
a total of _num4 men living in yamaguchi were screened for glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase -lrb- g6pd -rrb- deficiency using beutlers spot test and three types of starch gel electrophoresis . 
these electrophoresis used a phosphate buffer system at ph _num1 . 
_num1 , a tris-edta-borate buffer system at ph _num1 . 
_num1 , and a tris-hydrochloride buffer system at ph _num1 . . 
fifteen g6pd-deficient variants were found at the rate of _num1 . 
_num1 % and classified into four groups . 
as new variants , g6pd konan , kamiube , and kiwa were identified . 
these three variants had a mild to moderate g6pd deficiency and were not associated with any clinical signs . 
g6pd konan had fast electrophoretic mobility as compared with normal levels , g6pd kiwa had slightly elevated electrophoretic mobility , and g6pd kamiube had normal electrophoretic mobility . 
these three variants had normal levels of km g6p , km nadp , and ki nadph , normal utilizations of both 2-deoxy-g6p and deamino-napd , normal heat stability , and a normal ph curve . 
the other variant was g6pd ube , which we had previously found in yamaguchi -lrb- nakashima et al. , _num4 -rrb- . 
one boy with g6pd ube was korean difference in methylation patterns within the d15s9 region of chromosome 15q11-13 in first cousins with angelman syndrome and prader-willi syndrome . 
abnormalities of chromosome region 15q11-13 are associated with angelman syndrome -lrb- as -rrb- and prader-willi syndrome -lrb- pws -rrb- . 
differences between the methylation patterns of the region of chromosome 15q11-13 which hybridizes to the highly conserved dna , dn34 , in normal individuals and in patients with as and pws have been described . 
we report on a family in which first cousins are affected by as and pws as a result of a familial paracentric inversion of 15q11-q13 . 
the results of the studies on this family demonstrate the differences in the methylation patterns in the _num1 conditions and the phenomenon of genomic imprinting , whereby genetic information is expressed differently dependent on the parent of origin . . 
mutations in the candidate gene for norrie disease . 
recently , we and others have isolated a candidate gene for x linked norrie disease -lrb- nd -rrb- which was found to be deleted or disrupted in several patients . 
as a prerequisite for the identification of point mutations in the nd gene we have established the exon-intron structure of this gene . 
in _num2 unrelated patients and _num2 controls , pcr products derived from the promoter region , exons _num1 and _num1 as well as the coding part of exon _num1 were analysed with the single strand conformation polymorphism -lrb- sscp -rrb- technique . 
in _num2 patients altered pcr fragments were detected which were studied in detail by direct sequencing . 
eleven different mutations were found , and all but one are likely to give rise to significant structural changes in the predicted protein . 
these findings , and the absence of functionally relevant base changes in healthy controls , emphasize the causal role of this candidate gene in norrie disease and pave the way for reliable diagnosis and carrier detection . . 
a single amino acid substitution -lrb- g103d -rrb- in the type ii collagen triple helix produces kniest dysplasia . 
kniest dysplasia is a moderately severe chondrodysplasia phenotype that results from mutations in the gene for type ii collagen , col2a1 . 
characteristics of the disorder include a short trunk and extremities , mid-face hypoplasia , cleft palate , myopia , retinal detachment , and hearing loss . 
recently , deletions of all or part of exon _num2 have been identified in individuals with kniest dysplasia , suggesting that mutations within this region of the protein may primarily result in the kniest dysplasia phenotype . 
we used sscp to analyze an amplified genomic dna fragment containing exon _num2 from seven individuals with kniest dysplasia . 
an abnormality was identified in one patient . 
dna sequence analysis demonstrated that the patient was heterozygous for a g to a transition that implied substitution of glycine103 of the triple helical domain by aspartate . 
the mutation was not observed in dna from either of the clinically unaffected parents of the proband . 
protein microsequencing demonstrated expression of the abnormal allele in cartilage . 
these data demonstrate that point mutations which result in single amino acid substitutions can produce kniest dysplasia and further support the hypothesis that alteration of a domain , which includes the region encoded by exon _num2 , in the type ii collagen protein leads to this disorder . . 
linkage analysis of _num1 novel van der woude syndrome kindreds to 1q32-q41 markers further supports locus homogeneity of the disease trait . 
van der woude syndrome -lrb- vws , mim _num6 -rrb- is a rare autosomal dominant clefting condition with cardinal features of mucous cysts -lrb- lower-lip pits -rrb- and clefts to the lip and / or palate . 
the vws gene has been assigned to a locus in 1q32-q41 by linkage analysis and physical mapping . 
we have investigated _num1 novel vws families through probands attended for cleft lip and / or palate repair at the department of maxillofacial surgery of hopital trousseau , paris , in order to tentatively refine the genetic map of the vws region in 1q32-q41 and possibly identify unlinked pedigrees . 
linkage analysis was carried out to _num1 microsatellite markers -lrb- d1s249 , d1s425 , d1s491 , d1s205 , d1s414 , d1s425 -rrb- , yielding a maximum cumulative lod score of z = _num1 . 
_num2 at theta = _num1 . 
_num2 for d1s245 . 
the innermost four markers were found to be tightly linked to one another , with no evidence for recombination . 
our results support linkage of vws within a region of tightly linked markers and do not favour locus heterogeneity of the disease trait . 
hypopigmentation in the prader-willi syndrome . 
cutaneous and ocular pigmentation were evaluated in _num2 individuals with the prader-willi syndrome -lrb- pws -rrb- . 
criteria for hypopigmentation included the presence of type i or ii skin , the lightest skin type in the family by history , and iris translucency on globe transillumination . 
on the basis of these criteria , _num2 % of the pws individuals were hypopigmented . 
the presence of hypopigmentation correlated with a small interstitial deletion on the proximal long arm of chromosome _num2 ; however , this deletion was also found in individuals who did not meet the full criteria for hypopigmentation . 
hairbulb tyrosinase activity and glutathione content , as well as urine cysteinyldopa excretion , were low in pws individuals with and without hypopigmentation and did not separate these two groups . 
we conclude that hypopigmentation is found in a significant proportion of individuals with pws and that the hypopigmentation may be associated with a deletion of the long arm of chromosome _num2 . 
the mechanism for the hypopigmentation is unknown . . 
deficiency of the fifth component of complement in human subjects . 
clinical , genetic and immunologic studies in a large kindred . 
the discovery of a large kindred with a heritable deficiency of the fifth component of complement -lrb- c5 -rrb- has permitted the accumulation of new clinical , genetic and immunologic data concerning the role of c5 in human subjects . 
the proband , who has had nine episodes of disseminated gonococcal infection , has a hemolytic c5 level of approximately _num1 . 
_num1 per cent of normal . 
no c5 protein was detectable , but low levels of functional c5 activity could be found using a sensitive bactericidal assay . 
the probands twin as well as another sister also had extremely low levels of hemolytic c5 -lrb- approximately _num1 . 
_num1 per cent normal -rrb- , but both these subjects have been healthy . 
hemolytic complement and bacteriolytic activity could be restored by the addition of purified c5 . 
no chemotactic activity for polymorphonuclear leukocytes could be generated in the c5-deficient serums upon activation of either the classic or alternative pathways , again demonstrating the importance of c5 in human subjects for the production of chemotactic factors . 
the chemotactic responsiveness of the patients polymorphonuclear leukocytes and monocytes to preformed chemotactic factors was not depressed . 
twenty-two of _num2 other family members from three generations had depressed whole hemolytic complement levels . 
in _num2 of _num2 family members , levels of hemolytic c5 ranged from _num2 to _num2 per cent of normal . 
no linkage for c5 deficiency and the a or b loci of the major histocompatibility complex could be found . 
these data suggest an autosomal codominant mode of inheritance of c5 deficiency . 
deficiency of c5 is compatible with good health , but it can be associated with repeated disseminated gonococcal infection a new glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase variant , g6pd orissa -lrb- _num2 ala -- > gly -rrb- , is the major polymorphic variant in tribal populations in india . 
deficiency of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase -lrb- g6pd -rrb- is usually found at high frequencies in areas of the world where malaria has been endemic . 
the frequency and genetic basis of g6pd deficiency have been studied in africa , around the mediterranean , and in the far east , but little such information is available about the situation in india . 
to determine the extent of heterogeneity of g6pd , we have studied several different indian populations by screening for g6pd deficiency , followed by molecular analysis of deficient alleles . 
the frequency of g6pd deficiency varies between _num1 % and _num2 % in different tribal and urban groups . 
remarkably , a previously unreported deficient variant , g6pd orissa -lrb- _num2 ala -- > gly -rrb- , is responsible for most of the g6pd deficiency in tribal indian populations but is not found in urban populations , where most of the g6pd deficiency is due to the g6pd mediterranean -lrb- _num3 ser -- > phe -rrb- variant . 
the kmnadp of g6pd orissa is fivefold higher than that of the normal enzyme . 
this may be due to the fact that the alanine residue that is replaced by glycine is part of a putative coenzyme-binding site . . 
germline mutations in the wilms ' tumor suppressor gene are associated with abnormal urogenital development in denys-drash syndrome . 
denys-drash syndrome is a rare human condition in which severe urogenital aberrations result in renal failure , pseudohermaphroditism , and wilms tumor -lrb- nephroblastoma -rrb- . 
to investigate its possible role , we have analyzed the coding exons of the wilms tumor suppressor gene -lrb- wt1 -rrb- for germline mutations . 
in ten independent cases of denys-drash syndrome , point mutations in the zinc finger domains of one wt1 gene copy were found . 
nine of these mutations are found within exon _num1 -lrb- zinc finger iii -rrb- ; the remaining mutation is in exon _num1 -lrb- zinc finger ii -rrb- . 
these mutations directly affect dna sequence recognition . 
in two families analyzed , the mutations were shown to arise de novo . 
wilms tumors from three individuals and one juvenile granulosa cell tumor demonstrate reduction to homozygosity for the mutated wt1 allele . 
our results provide evidence of a direct role for wt1 in denys-drash syndrome and thus urogenital system development . . 
molecular basis of feline beta-glucuronidase deficiency : an animal model of mucopolysaccharidosis vii . 
a family of domestic cats was found that exhibited clinical and biochemical abnormalities consistent with mucopolysaccharidosis vii , an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder caused by beta-glucuronidase deficiency . 
beta-glucuronidase activity was undetectable in affected cat fibroblasts and restored by retroviral gene transfer of rat beta-glucuronidase cdna . 
beta-glucuronidase mrna was normal in affected cat testis by northern blot analysis . 
normal feline beta-glucuronidase cdna was cloned and characterized , and amplified from affected cat fibroblasts by reverse transcription coupled polymerase chain reaction . 
there was a g-to-a transition in the affected cat cdna that predicted an e351k substitution , destroyed a bsssi site , and eliminated gusb enzymatic activity in expression studies . 
multiple species comparison and the crystal structure of human beta-glucuronidase indicated that _an is a highly conserved residue most likely essential in maintenance of the enzymes conformation . 
bsssi digestion of polymerase chain reaction products amplified from genomic dna indicated that affected cats were homozygous and cats with half-normal beta-glucuronidase activity were heterozygous for the missense mutation . 
carriers identified in this manner produced affected kittens in prospective breedings , and a feline mps vii breeding colony has been established . . 
loss-of-function mutations in the cathepsin c gene result in periodontal disease and palmoplantar keratosis . 
papillon-lefevre syndrome , or keratosis palmoplantaris with periodontopathia -lrb- pls , mim _num6 -rrb- , is an autosomal recessive disorder that is mainly ascertained by dentists because of the severe periodontitis that afflicts patients . 
both the deciduous and permanent dentitions are affected , resulting in premature tooth loss . 
palmoplantar keratosis , varying from mild psoriasiform scaly skin to overt hyperkeratosis , typically develops within the first three years of life . 
keratosis also affects other sites such as elbows and knees . 
most pls patients display both periodontitis and hyperkeratosis . 
some patients have only palmoplantar keratosis or periodontitis , and in rare individuals the periodontitis is mild and of late onset . 
the pls locus has been mapped to chromosome 11q14-q21 -lrb- refs _num1 , _num1 , _num1 -rrb- . 
using homozygosity mapping in eight small consanguineous families , we have narrowed the candidate region to a _num1 . 
2-cm interval between d11s4082 and d11s931 . 
the gene -lrb- ctsc -rrb- encoding the lysosomal protease cathepsin c -lrb- or dipeptidyl aminopeptidase i -rrb- lies within this interval . 
we defined the genomic structure of ctsc and found mutations in all eight families . 
in two of these families we used a functional assay to demonstrate an almost total loss of cathepsin c activity in pls patients and reduced activity in obligate carriers . 
brca1 deficiency results in early embryonic lethality characterized by neuroepithelial abnormalities . 
the breast and ovarian cancer susceptibility gene , brca1 , has been cloned and shown to encode a zinc-finger protein of unknown function . 
mutations in brca1 account for at least _num2 % of families with both breast and ovarian cancer , as well as some non-familial sporadic ovarian cancers . 
the loss of wild-type brca1 in tumours of individuals carrying one nonfunctional brca1 allele suggests that brca1 encodes a tumour suppressor that may inhibit the proliferation of mammary epithelial cells . 
to examine the role of brca1 in normal tissue growth and differentiation , and to generate a potential model for the cancer susceptibility associated with loss of brca1 function , we have created a mouse line carrying a mutation in one brca1 allele . 
analysis of mice homozygous for the mutant allele indicate that brca1 is critical for normal development , as these mice died in utero between _num2 and _num2 days of gestation -lrb- e10-e13 -rrb- . 
abnormalities in brca1-deficient embryos were most evident in the neural tube , with _num2 % of the embryos presenting with varying degrees of spina bifida and anencephaly . 
in addition , the neuroepithelium in brca1-deficient embryos appeared disorganized , with signs of both rapid proliferation and excessive cell death . . 
x linked recessive thrombocytopenia . 
a saudi arab boy presented in early childhood with thrombocytopenia , morphologically large and normal sized platelets , increased mean platelet volume , and a hypermegakaryocytic bone marrow . 
there was no clinical and laboratory evidence of any significant immunological abnormalities . 
similar findings in two other brothers suggested strongly that they were all suffering from an x linked recessive thrombocytopenic disorder . 
results of dna analysis with the probe _an beta are consistent with x linkage and indicate also that the locus of the relevant gene lies close to or is identical to the locus of the gene for the wiskott-aldrich syndrome -lrb- was -rrb- . 
because of various features which include the presence of large and normal sized platelets -lrb- rather than small platelets -rrb- and freedom from significant immune deficiencies , it is likely that the x linked recessive thrombocytopenia in this family is an isolated entity quite distinct from the classical was phenotype . 
however , a modified expression of the was gene producing a mild phenotypic variant can not be excluded entirely . . 
genetics of cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis -lrb- ctx -rrb- : an autosomal recessive trait with high gene frequency in sephardim of moroccan origin . 
we described _num1 patients -lrb- from _num1 families -rrb- affected with cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis -lrb- ctx -rrb- . 
all are sephardic jews of moroccan extraction . 
in view of the small number of ctx patients diagnosed in the world -lrb- a total of _num2 including our _num1 patients -rrb- , we are probably dealing with an ethnic subgroup with a high ctx gene frequency , which we have estimated to be 1 / 108 . 
since there are differences in expression in this disease , we recommend cholestanol study in cases of undiagnosed cataract or tendinous xanthomas in childhood or early adolescence . 
the diagnosis in ctx is important not only for genetic counseling , but also in veiw of possible treatment . . 
a missense mutation in the cholesteryl ester transfer protein gene with possible dominant effects on plasma high density lipoproteins . 
plasma hdl are a negative risk factor for atherosclerosis . 
cholesteryl ester transfer protein -lrb- cetp ; _num3 amino acids -rrb- transfers cholesteryl ester from hdl to other lipoproteins . 
subjects with homozygous cetp deficiency caused by a gene splicing defect have markedly elevated hdl ; however , heterozygotes have only mild increases in hdl . 
we describe two probands with a cetp missense mutation -lrb- _num3 d g -rrb- . 
although heterozygous , they have threefold increases in hdl concentration and markedly decreased plasma cetp mass and activity , suggesting that the mutation has dominant effects on cetp and hdl in vivo . 
cellular expression of mutant cdna results in secretion of only _num2 % of wild type cetp activity . 
moreover , coexpression of wild type and mutant cdnas leads to inhibition of wild type secretion and activity . 
the dominant effects of the cetp missense mutation during cellular expression probably explains why the probands have markedly increased hdl in the heterozygous state , and suggests that the active molecular species of cetp may be multimeric . . 
huntington disease : no evidence for locus heterogeneity . 
a total of _num2 families with huntington disease -lrb- hd -rrb- were examined for linkage between hd and g8 -lrb- d4s10 -rrb- . 
the families included _num2 caucasian , four black american , and two japanese . 
the combined maximum lod score was _num2 . 
_num2 at theta = _num1 . 
_num2 -lrb- _num2 % confidence interval _num1 . 
018-0 . 
_num3 -rrb- . 
the maximum frequency of recombination was _num1 . 
_num2 in males and _num1 . 
_num2 in females . 
fifty-seven families gave positive lod scores ; five small families gave mildly negative lod scores . 
the maximum likelihood estimate of alpha , the proportion of linked loci , was _num1 . 
_num1 with a lower _num2 % confidence interval of _num1 . 
_num2 . 
these data suggest that there is only one hd locus , although a second rare locus can not be ruled out . 
homozygous and heterozygous deletions of the von willebrand factor gene in patients and carriers of severe von willebrand disease . 
severe von willebrand disease is characterized by undetectable or trace quantities of von willebrand factor in plasma and tissue stores . 
we have studied the genomic dna of _num2 affected individuals from six families with this disorder using probes from the _num1 and _num1 ends of the vwf cdna and with a probe extending from the _num1 end into the central region . 
southern blots of restriction endonuclease digests and gene dosage analysis measurements carried out with quantitative slot blots of undigested genomic dna separated these patients into three groups . 
the first group consisted of a family with complete homozygous deletions of the vwf gene in the four probands . 
gene dosage analysis was consistent with heterozygous deletions in both of the asymptomatic parents and four asymptomatic siblings of this kindred -lrb- p less than _num1 . 
_num2 -rrb- . 
the second group was comprised of a family in which there was a complete heterozygous deletion of the vwf gene in the proband and one asymptomatic parent , suggesting that a different type of genetic abnormality was inherited from the other parent . 
thus , the patient appeared to be doubly heterozygous for interacting genetic abnormalities affecting vwf expression . 
in the third group , no gene deletions could be detected . 
alloantibodies developed only in the kindred with homozygous deletions . 
these techniques should prove useful in identifying carriers of severe von willebrand disease and also in defining patients predictably at risk of developing alloantibodies to vwf . 
spectrum of germline mutations in the rb1 gene : a study of _num3 patients with hereditary and non hereditary retinoblastoma . 
germline mutations in the rb1 gene confer hereditary predisposition to retinoblastoma . 
we have performed a mutation survey of the rb1 gene in _num3 patients with hereditary or non hereditary retinoblastoma . 
we systematically explored all _num2 exons and flanking sequences as well as the promotor . 
all types of point mutations are represented and are found unequally distributed along the rb1 gene sequence . 
in the population we studied , exons _num1 , _num1 , _num2 and _num2 are preferentially altered . 
the range of frequency of detection of germline mutations is about _num2 % , indicating that other mechanisms of inactivation of rb1 should be involved . 
the spectrum of mutations presented here should help to improve the clinical management of retinoblastoma and to understand the molecular mechanisms leading to tumorigenesis . . 
pelizaeus-merzbacher disease : an x-linked neurologic disorder of myelin metabolism with a novel mutation in the gene encoding proteolipid protein . 
the nosology of the inborn errors of myelin metabolism has been stymied by the lack of molecular genetic analysis . 
historically , pelizaeus-merzbacher disease has encompassed a host of neurologic disorders that present with a deficit of myelin , the membrane elaborated by glial cells that encircles and successively enwraps axons . 
we describe here a pelizaeus-merzbacher pedigree of the classical type , with x-linked inheritance , a typical clinical progression , and a pathologic loss of myelinating cells and myelin in the central nervous system . 
to discriminate variants of pelizaeus-merzbacher disease , a set of oligonucleotide primers was constructed to polymerase-chain-reaction -lrb- pcr -rrb- amplify and sequence the gene encoding proteolipid protein -lrb- plp -rrb- , a structural protein that comprises half of the protein of the myelin sheath . 
the plp gene in one of two affected males and the carrier mother of this family exhibited a single base difference in the more than _num1 kb of the plp gene sequenced , a c -- t transition that would create a serine substitution for proline at the carboxy end of the protein . 
our results delineate the clinical features of pelizaeus-merzbacher disease , define the possible molecular pathology of this dysmyelinating disorder , and address the molecular classification of inborn errors of myelin metabolism . 
patients with the classical form -lrb- type i -rrb- and the more severely affected , connatal variant of pelizaeus-merzbacher disease -lrb- type ii -rrb- would be predicted to display mutation at the plp locus . 
the other variants -lrb- types iii-vi -rrb- , which have sometimes been categorized as pelizaeus-merzbacher disease , may represent mutations in genes encoding other structural myelin proteins or proteins critical to myelination . . 
_ds expansions in a novel gene for machado-joseph disease at chromosome 14q32 .1 . 
we have identified a novel gene containing _ds repeats and mapped it to chromosome 14q32 . 
_num1 , the genetic locus for machado-joseph disease -lrb- mjd -rrb- . 
in normal individuals the gene contains between _num2 and _num2 _ds repeats , whereas most of the clinically diagnosed patients and all of the affected members of a family with the clinical and pathological diagnosis of mjd show expansion of the repeat-number -lrb- from 68-79 -rrb- . 
southern blot analyses and genomic cloning demonstrates the existence of related genes . 
these results raise the possibility that similar abnormalities in related genes may give rise to diseases similar to mjd . 
conservation of the duchenne muscular dystrophy gene in mice and humans . 
a portion of the duchenne muscular dystrophy -lrb- dmd -rrb- gene transcript from human fetal skeletal muscle and mouse adult heart was sequenced , representing approximately _num2 percent of the total , 14-kb dmd transcript . 
the nucleic acid and predicted amino acid sequences from the two species are nearly _num2 percent homologous . 
the amino acid sequence that is predicted from this portion of the dmd gene indicates that the protein product might serve a structural role in muscle , but the abundance and tissue distribution of the messenger rna suggests that the dmd protein is not nebulin . . 
deficiency of the murine fifth complement component -lrb- c5 -rrb- . 
a 2-base pair gene deletion in a _num1 ' - exon . 
to ascertain the molecular mechanism that causes murine c5 deficiency , genomic and cdna libraries were constructed from mouse liver dna and mrna employing the congenic strains _an . 
d2 / nsnj and _an . 
d2 / osnj that are sufficient and deficient for c5 , respectively . 
genomic fragments were isolated which correspond to pvuii and hindiii restriction fragment length polymorphisms associated with c5 deficiency . 
sequence analyses demonstrated that each of these polymorphisms resulted from single base pair substitutions and that neither substitution would probably cause or contribute to the c5 deficiency . 
sequence analyses of c5 sufficient and deficient cdnas revealed a _num1 base-pair deletion in the deficient cdnas . 
the '' _ds '' deletion was located near the _num1 end of the cdna . 
this deletion shifts the reading frame of the c5 mrna so that the termination codon uga is present _num1 base pairs downstream from the deletion . 
genomic dna was amplified and sequenced corresponding to the area surrounding the 2-base pair deletion . 
six c5-deficient strains , a / hej , akr / j , dba / 2j , nzb / b1nj , swr / j , and _an . 
d2 / osnj , and four c5-sufficient strains , balb / cj , c57bl / 6j , dba / 1j , and _an . 
d2 / nsnj , were analyzed . 
the sequencing data revealed that the _num1 base pairs were deleted from the c5 gene of each deficient mouse tested but not from the c5 gene of any sufficient mouse . 
these data demonstrate that _num1 -rrb- there is an identical 2-base pair deletion in an exon of the c5 gene in several different c5-deficient mouse strains ; _num1 -rrb- the mrna transcribed from the c5d gene retains this deletion ; and _num1 -rrb- this mutation should result in c5 protein deficiency . 
recurrent meningitis in a patient with congenital deficiency of the c9 component of complement . 
first case of c9 deficiency in europe . 
we describe the first cases , to our knowledge , of c9 deficiency in europe that were detected in a swiss family , of which two members -- one with a complete deficiency and the other with approximately half-normal c9 levels -- experienced bacterial meningitis . 
the index patient , a 56-year-old white man with a history of purulent meningitis at the age of _num2 years , presented with an acute meningococcal meningitis . 
no impairment of cellular immunity or immunoglobulin deficiency could be found . 
complement assays showed a complete deficiency of the c9 component , while the other individual component levels were normal and the hemolytic activity -lrb- measured using the ch50 assay -rrb- was only slightly reduced . 
a family study revealed complete c9 deficiency in the patients healthy brother and half-normal c9 concentrations in his sister , his son -lrb- who also had experienced an episode of bacterial meningitis -rrb- , and his niece , consistent with an inherited c9 deficiency . 
this first case of recurrent meningitis in a white patient with complete c9 deficiency suggests that this complement defect may also be a risk factor for bacterial , especially neisserial , infections . . 
bone marrow transplant in adrenoleukodystrophy . 
an allogeneic bone marrow transplant -lrb- bmt -rrb- from a normal hla identical sibling donor was performed in a 13-year-old boy with rapidly progressive adrenoleukodystrophy -lrb- ald -rrb- . 
engraftment and complete hematologic recovery occurred within _num1 weeks , but neurologic deterioration continued . 
the patient died of an adenovirus infection _num3 days after bmt . 
ald is characterized by abnormally high plasma levels of very long chain fatty acids -lrb- vlcfa -rrb- as a result of impaired capacity to degrade them . 
ten days after bmt , the white blood cell vlcfa levels and enzyme activity became normal ; after _num1 months , there was progressive reduction of plasma vlcfa to levels only slightly above normal . . 
increased incidence of cataracts in male subjects deficient in glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase . 
glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase -lrb- g6pd -rrb- deficiency in rbcs was found significantly more frequently in _num3 male cataractous patients than in _num3 control subjects of sardinian origin . 
the frequency of the deficiency was increasingly higher in presenile cataracts . 
in the g6pd-deficient group , the incidence of cortical and total cataracts was also increased . 
it is suggested that decrease of the g6pd activity in the lens , which accompanies its deficiency in the erythrocyte , might play a role in the cataracto-genesis of these patients . 
moreover , g6pd deficiency should be added to other conditions , such as the galactosemic states and riboflavin deficiency , where cataracts represent a sensitive indicator of metabolic abnormalities of the rbc . . 
von hippel-lindau disease maps to the region of chromosome _num1 associated with renal cell carcinoma . 
von hippel-lindau disease -lrb- vhl -rrb- is an autosomal dominant disorder with inherited susceptibility to various forms of cancer , including hemangioblastomas of the central nervous system , phaeochromocytomas , pancreatic malignancies , and renal cell carcinomas . 
renal cell carcinomas constitute a particularly frequent cause of death in this disorder , occurring as bilateral and multifocal tumours , and presenting at an earlier age than in sporadic , non-familial cases of this tumour type . 
we report here that the vhl gene is linked to the locus encoding the human homologoue of the raf1 oncogene , which maps to chromosome 3p25 -lrb- ref . 
_num1 -rrb- . 
crossovers with the vhl locus suggest that the defect responsible for the vhl phenotype is not a mutation in the raf1 gene itself . 
an alternative or prior event to oncogene activation in tumour formation may be the inactivation of a putative tumour suppressor which can be associated with both the inherited and sporadic forms of the cancer . 
sporadic renal cell carcinomas have previously been associated with the loss of regions on chromosome 3p -lrb- refs _num1 , _num1 -rrb- . 
consequently , sporadic and vhl-associated forms of renal cell carcinoma might both result from alterations causing loss of function of the same tumour suppressor gene on this chromosome . . 
tightly linked flanking markers for the lowe oculocerebrorenal syndrome , with application to carrier assessment . 
the lowe oculocerebrorenal syndrome -lrb- ocrl -rrb- is characterized by congenital cataract , mental retardation , and defective renal tubular function . 
a map assignment of ocrl to xq24-q26 has been made previously by linkage analysis with dxs42 at xq24-q26 -lrb- theta = _num1 , z = _num1 . 
_num2 -rrb- and with dxs10 at xq26 -lrb- theta = _num1 , z = _num1 . 
_num2 -rrb- . 
two additional families were studied and three additional polymorphisms were identified at dxs42 by using a 35-kb sequence isolated with the probe detecting the original polymorphism at dxs42 . 
with additional ocrl families made informative for dxs42 , theta remained _num1 with z = _num1 . 
_num2 ; and for dxs10 theta = _num1 . 
_num2 and z = _num1 . 
_num2 . 
evidence for placing ocrl at xq25 also comes from a female with lowe syndrome and an x ; _num1 translocation . 
we have used the xq25 breakpoint in this patient to determine the position of ocrl relative to the two linked markers . 
each derivative chromosome was isolated away from its normal counterpart in somatic cell hybrids . 
dxs42 was mapped to the derivative chromosome x containing xpterq25 , and dxs10 was mapped to the derivative chromosome _num1 containing xq25-qter . 
the markers dxs10 and dxs42 therefore show tight linkage with ocrl in six families and flank the xq25 breakpoint in a female patient with an x ; _num1 translocation . 
linkage analysis with flanking markers was used to assess ocrl carrier status in women at risk . 
results , when compared with carrier determination by ophthalmologic examination , indicated that the slit-lamp exam can be a sensitive and specific method of carrier determination in many cases abnormal development of purkinje cells and lymphocytes in atm mutant mice . 
motor incoordination , immune deficiencies , and an increased risk of cancer are the characteristic features of the hereditary disease ataxia-telangiectasia -lrb- a-t -rrb- , which is caused by mutations in the atm gene . 
through gene targeting , we have generated a line of atm mutant mice , atm -lrb- y / y -rrb- mice . 
in contrast to other atm mutant mice , atm -lrb- y / y -rrb- mice show a lower incidence of thymic lymphoma and survive beyond a few months of age . 
atm -lrb- y / y -rrb- mice exhibit deficits in motor learning indicative of cerebellar dysfunction . 
even though we found no gross cerebellar degeneration in older atm -lrb- y / y -rrb- animals , ectopic and abnormally differentiated purkinje cells were apparent in mutant mice of all ages . 
these findings establish that some neuropathological abnormalities seen in a-t patients also are present in atm mutant mice . 
in addition , we report a previously unrecognized effect of atm deficiency on development or maintenance of cd4 -lrb- + -rrb- _num1 -lrb- + -rrb- thymocytes . 
we discuss these findings in the context of the hypothesis that abnormal development of purkinje cells and lymphocytes contributes to the pathogenesis of a-t . . 
both mutations in g6pd a - are necessary to produce the g6pd deficient phenotype . 
the high prevalence of glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase -lrb- g6pd -rrb- deficiency in african populations is due almost entirely to the enzyme variant a - , which differs from the wild-type g6pd b by two amino acid replacements , _num2 val -- > met and _num3 asn -- > asp . 
the non-deficient polymorphic variant g6pd a contains only the mutation _num3 asn -- > asp . 
the frequencies of the g6pd a and of the g6pd a - genes in parts of africa are both about _num1 . 
_num1 . 
the _num2 val -- > met mutation has not been found in a b background . 
this could be because the _num2 val -- > met mutation happened to arise in an a gene in the first instance , or because the _num2 val -- > met mutation alone is not sufficient to cause g6pd deficiency . 
we have approached this question by producing g6pd b , a , a - , and g6pd _num2 val -- > met in a bacterial expression system and analysing their biochemical properties . 
with each single mutation we found a slight decrease in both the specific activity and the yield of enzyme when compared to g6pd b . 
when both mutations were introduced together , there was a roughly additive effect on specific activity , but a much more drastic effect on enzyme yield -lrb- _num1 % of normal -rrb- . 
this synergistic effect was also demonstrated on thermal stability , especially at low nadp concentrations . 
comparable results were produced when the replacement _num3 gln -- > glu was studied instead of _num3 asn -- > asp . 
we infer that the coexistence of the two mutations is responsible for enzyme deficiency in g6pd a - because they act synergistically in causing instability of the enzyme . 
detection of _num2 % of dmd / bmd gene deletions by polymerase chain reaction . 
we describe oligonucleotide primer sequences that can be used to amplify eight exons plus the muscle promoter of the dystrophin gene in a single multiplex polymerase chain reaction -lrb- pcr -rrb- . 
when used in conjunction with an existing primer set , these two multiplex reactions detect about _num2 % of deletions in patients with duchenne or becker muscular dystrophy -lrb- dmd , bmd -rrb- . 
furthermore , these primers amplify most of the exons in the deletion prone '' hot spot '' region around exons _num2 to _num2 , allowing determination of deletion endpoints and prediction of mutational effects on the translational reading frame . 
thus , use of these pcr-based assays will allow deletion detection and prenatal diagnosis for most dmd / bmd patients in a fraction of the time required for southern blot analysis . . 
recombination events that locate myotonic dystrophy distal to apoc2 on 19q . 
we previously reported a recombination in an individual with myotonic dystrophy -lrb- dm -rrb- which placed the markers d19s19 and apoc2 on the same side of the dm locus . 
haplotyping of this family with more recently characterized probes which are either tightly linked to dm or distal to the linkage group at _an . 
_num1 shows that the dm locus is distal to apoc2 . 
this is confirmed by other recombinants where dm segregates with distal probes . 
additional marker to marker recombinations in unaffected individuals are reported and support the order and orientation of the dm linkage group as pter - -lrb- insr , ldlr , s9 -rrb- - -lrb- _an , bcl3 , apoc2 -rrb- - -lrb- ckmm , dm -rrb- - -lrb- _an , + + + prkcg -rrb- - qter . 
the data presented here can not determine whether dm is proximal or distal to ckmm . 
the consequences of this probe order for antenatal diagnosis and future research aiming to isolate the gene which is affected in dm are discussed . 
new mutations , polymorphisms , and rare variants in the atm gene detected by a novel sscp strategy . 
the gene for ataxia-telangiectasia , atm , spans about _num3 kb of genomic dna . 
atm mutations are found along the entire gene , with no evidence of a mutational hot spot . 
using dna as the starting material , we screened the atm gene in _num2 a-t patients , using an optimized single-strand conformation polymorphism -lrb- sscp -rrb- technique that detected all previously known mutations in the polymerase chain reaction -lrb- pcr -rrb- segments being analyzed . 
to expedite screening , we sequentially loaded the sscp gels with three different sets of pcr products that were pretested to avoid overlapping patterns . 
many of the dna changes we detected were intragenic polymorphisms . 
of an expected _num3 unknown mutations , we detected approximately _num2 % , mostly protein truncating mutations -lrb- that would have been detectable by protein truncation testing if rna starting material had been available -rrb- . 
mutations have now been defined for every exon of the atm gene . 
herein , we present _num2 new mutations and _num2 new intragenic polymorphisms or rare variants within the atm gene . 
this is the most comprehensive compilation of atm polymorphisms assembled to date . 
defining polymorphic sites as well as mutations in the atm gene will be of great importance in designing automated methods for detecting mutations . . 
chromosome breakage in the prader-willi and angelman syndromes involves recombination between large , transcribed repeats at proximal and distal breakpoints . 
prader-willi syndrome -lrb- pws -rrb- and angelman syndrome -lrb- as -rrb- are distinct neurobehavioral disorders that most often arise from a 4-mb deletion of chromosome 15q11-q13 during paternal or maternal gametogenesis , respectively . 
at a de novo frequency of approximately . 
67-1 / 10 , _num3 births , these deletions represent a common structural chromosome change in the human genome . 
to elucidate the mechanism underlying these events , we characterized the regions that contain two proximal breakpoint clusters and a distal cluster . 
novel dna sequences potentially associated with the breakpoints were positionally cloned from yacs within or near these regions . 
analyses of rodent-human somatic-cell hybrids , yac contigs , and fish of normal or rearranged chromosomes _num2 identified duplicated sequences -lrb- the end repeats -rrb- at or near the breakpoints . 
the end-repeat units are derived from large genomic duplications of a novel gene -lrb- herc2 -rrb- , many copies of which are transcriptionally active in germline tissues . 
one of five pws / as patients analyzed to date has an identifiable , rearranged herc2 transcript derived from the deletion event . 
we postulate that the end repeats flanking 15q11-q13 mediate homologous recombination resulting in deletion . 
furthermore , we propose that active transcription of these repeats in male and female germ cells may facilitate the homologous recombination process . 
a 4-megabase yac contig that spans the langer-giedion syndrome region on human chromosome 8q24 .1 : use in refining the location of the trichorhinophalangeal syndrome and multiple exostoses genes -lrb- trps1 and ext1 -rrb- . 
we have constructed a physical map covering over _num1 mb of human chromosome 8q24 . 
_num1 and used this map to refine the locations of the genes responsible for langer-giedion syndrome . 
the map is composed of overlapping yac clones that were identified and ordered in relation to sequence tagged sites mapped to the langer-giedion chromosomal region on somatic cell hybrids . 
the minimal region of overlap of langer-giedion syndrome deletions , previously identified by analysis of _num2 patients , was placed on the map by analysis of _num1 patients whose deletions define the endpoints . 
the chromosome _num1 breakpoint of a balanced t -lrb- _num1 ; _num1 -rrb- -lrb- _an . 
_num2 ; _an . 
_num1 -rrb- translocation from a patient with trichorhinophalangeal syndrome -lrb- trps i -rrb- was found to be located just within the proximal end of the minimal deletion region . 
a deletion of 8q24 . 
11-q24 . 
_num1 in a patient with multiple exostoses was found to overlap the distal end of the lgs deletion region , indicating that the ext1 gene is distal to the trps1 gene and supporting the hypothesis that langer-giedion syndrome is due to loss of functional copies of both the trps1 and the ext1 genes genetic mapping of the breast-ovarian cancer syndrome to a small interval on chromosome 17q12-21 : exclusion of candidate genes edh17b2 and rara . 
a susceptibility gene for hereditary breast-ovarian cancer , brca1 , has been assigned by linkage analysis to chromosome 17q21 . 
candidate genes in this region include edh17b2 , which encodes estradiol _num2 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase ii -lrb- _num2 beta-hsd ii -rrb- , and rara , the gene for retinoic acid receptor alpha . 
we have typed _num2 breast and breast-ovarian cancer families with eight polymorphisms from the chromosome 17q12-21 region , including two in the edh17b2 gene . 
genetic recombination with the breast cancer trait excludes rara from further consideration as a candidate gene for brca1 . 
both brca1 and edh17b2 map to a _num1 cm interval -lrb- between thra1 and d17s579 -rrb- and no recombination was observed between the two genes . 
however , direct sequencing of overlapping pcr products containing the entire edh17b2 gene in four unrelated affected women did not uncover any sequence variation , other than previously described polymorphisms . 
mutations in the edh17b2 gene , therefore do not appear to be responsible for the hereditary breast-ovarian cancer syndrome . 
single meiotic crossovers in affected women suggest that brca1 is flanked by the loci rara and d17s78 . . 
hereditary c2 deficiency associated with common variable immunodeficiency . 
homozygous c2 deficiency in a 19-year-old boy was associated with variable immunodeficiency manifested by marked hypoimmunoglobulinemia and impaired antibody responses , normal circulating b lymphocytes , and subnormal t-cell functions . 
neither antilymphocytic autoantibodies nor chromosomal abnormalities were found . 
serum immunoglobulin levels were within normal limits in his parents and brother who were heterozygous for c2 deficiency . 
the patients lymphocytes were homozygous at the hla-d locus but expressed an antigen different from dw2 . . 
isolation of molecular probes associated with the chromosome _num2 instability in the prader-willi syndrome . 
flow cytometry and recombinant dna techniques have been used to obtain reagents for a molecular analysis of the prader-willi syndrome -lrb- pws -rrb- . 
hindiii total-digest libraries were prepared in lambda phage charon 21a from flow-sorted inverted duplicated no. _num2 human chromosomes and propagated on recombination-proficient -lrb- le392 -rrb- and recbc - , sbcb - -lrb- db1257 -rrb- bacteria . 
twelve distinct chromosome 15-specific probes have been isolated . 
eight localized to the region 15q11 -- _num2 . 
four of these eight sublocalized to band 15q11 . 
_num1 and are shown to be deleted in dna of one of two patients examined with the pws . 
heteroduplex analysis of two of these clones , which grew on db1257 but not on le392 , revealed stem-loop structures in the inserts , indicative of inverted , repeated dna elements . 
such dna repeats might account for some of the cloning instability of dna segments from proximal 15q . 
analysis of the genetic and physical instability associated with the repeated sequences we have isolated from band 15q11 . 
_num1 may elucidate the molecular basis for the instability of this chromosomal region in patients with the pws or other diseases associated with chromosomal abnormalities in the proximal long arm of human chromosome _num2 myotonic dystrophy : evidence for a possible dominant-negative rna mutation . 
the trinucleotide expansion mutation causing myotonic dystrophy is in the _num1 untranslated region of a protein kinase gene . 
the molecular mechanisms by which the expanded repeat causes the clinically variable and multisystemic disease , myotonic dystrophy , are not understood . 
it has been particularly difficult to rationalize the dominant inheritance with the fact that the expansion mutation lies outside of the protein-encoding gene elements , and should not be translated into protein . 
here we use muscle biopsies from classical adult-onset myotonic dystrophy patients to study the accumulation of transcripts from both the normal and expanded dm kinase genes in patient muscle , and compare the results to normal and myopathic controls . 
we found relatively small decreases of dm kinase rna in the total rna pool from muscle ; however , these reductions were not disease specific . 
analysis of poly -lrb- a -rrb- + rna showed dramatic decreases of both the mutant and normal dm kinase rnas , and these changes were disease-specific . 
our findings are consistent with a novel molecular pathogenetic mechanism for myotonic dystrophy both the normal and expanded dm kinase genes are transcribed in patient muscle , but the abnormal expansion-containing rna has a dominant effect on rna metabolism by preventing the accumulation of poly -lrb- a -rrb- + rna . 
the ability of the expansion mutation to alter accumulation of poly -lrb- a -rrb- + rna in trans suggests that myotonic dystrophy may be the first example of a dominant-negative mutation manifested at the rna level . . 
isolation of the gene for mcleod syndrome that encodes a novel membrane transport protein . 
mcleod syndrome is an x-linked multisystem disorder characterized by abnormalities in the neuromuscular and hematopoietic systems . 
we have assembled a cosmid contig of _num3 kb that encompasses the mcleod gene locus . 
a _num2 kb deletion was detected by screening dna from patients with radiolabeled whole cosmids , and two transcription units were identified within this deletion . 
the mrna expression pattern of one of them , designated as xk , correlates closely to the mcleod phenotype . 
xk encodes a novel protein with structural characteristics of prokaryotic and eukaryotic membrane transport proteins . 
nucleotide sequence analysis of xk from two unrelated mcleod patients has identified point mutations at conserved splice donor and acceptor sites . 
these findings provide direct evidence that xk is responsible for mcleod syndrome . . 
molecular basis of very long chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase deficiency in three israeli patients : identification of a complex mutant allele with p65l and k247q mutations , the former being an exonic mutation causing exon _num1 skipping . 
very long chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase -lrb- vlcad -rrb- deficiency is a life-threatening disorder of mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation . 
we identified four novel mutations in three unrelated patients . 
all patients had the severe childhood form of vlcad deficiency with early onset and high mortality . 
immunoblot analysis revealed that vlcad protein was undetectable in patients _num1 and _num1 , whereas normal-size vlcad protein and an aberrant form of vlcad -lrb- 4kda smaller -rrb- were detected in patient _num1 . 
as expected , null mutations were found in patients _num1 and _num1 patient _num1 is homozygous for a frameshift mutation , del _num1 bp at 798-801 , and patient _num1 is homozygous for a nonsense mutation 65c > a -lrb- s22x -rrb- . 
patient _num1 was homozygous for a complex mutant allele containing two alterations , including a 194c > t transition -lrb- p65l -rrb- and 739a > c transversion -lrb- k247q -rrb- ; in the case of p65l , the amino acid change does not reduce enzyme activity . 
however , the nucleotide change resulted in exon _num1 skipping , whereas the latter k247q mutation had a drastic effect on enzyme activity . 
we verified these events by in vivo splicing experiments and transient expression analysis of mutant cdnas . 
the p65l mutation locates _num2 bases upstream of a splice donor site of intron _num1 . 
this is an example of an exonic mutation which affects exon-splicing . . 
amino-terminal fragments of mutant huntingtin show selective accumulation in striatal neurons and synaptic toxicity . 
huntington disease -lrb- hd -rrb- is caused by expansion of a glutamine repeat in the amino-terminal region of huntingtin . 
despite its widespread expression , mutant huntingtin induces selective neuronal loss in striatal neurons . 
here we report that , in mutant mice expressing hd repeats , the production and aggregation of n-terminal huntingtin fragments preferentially occur in hd affected neurons and their processes and axonal terminals . 
n-terminal fragments of mutant huntingtin form aggregates and induce neuritic degeneration in cultured striatal neurons . 
n-terminal mutant huntingtin also binds to synaptic vesicles and inhibits their glutamate uptake in vitro . 
the specific processing and accumulation of toxic fragments of n-terminal huntingtin in hd affected striatal neurons , especially in their neuronal processes and axonal terminals , may contribute to the selective neuropathology of hd . . 
phenotypic variation including retinitis pigmentosa , pattern dystrophy , and fundus flavimaculatus in a single family with a deletion of codon _num3 or _num3 of the peripherin / rds gene . 
background and objectives mutations of the peripherin / rds gene have been reported in autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa , pattern macular dystrophy , and retinitis punctata albescens . 
we report herein the occurrence of three separate phenotypes within a single family with a novel 3-base pair deletion of codon _num3 or _num3 of the peripherin / rds gene . 
design case reports with clinical features , fluorescein angiography , kinetic perimetry , electrophysiological studies , and molecular genetics . 
setting university medical centers . 
patients a 75-year-old woman , her two daughters -lrb- aged _num2 and _num2 years -rrb- , and her 49-year-old son were screened for peripherin / rds mutations because of the presence of multiple phenotypes within the same family . 
results the mother presented at age _num2 years with a profoundly abnormal electroretinogram -lrb- erg -rrb- and adult-onset retinitis pigmentosa that progressed dramatically over _num2 years , with marked loss of peripheral visual field . 
one daughter developed pattern macular dystrophy at age _num2 years . 
at age _num2 years , her erg was moderately abnormal but her clinical disease was limited to the macula . 
another daughter presented at age _num2 years with macular degeneration and over _num2 years developed the clinical picture of fundus flavimaculatus . 
her peripheral visual field was preserved but her erg was moderately abnormal . 
the son had onset of macular degeneration at age _num2 years . 
pericentral scotomas were present and the erg was markedly abnormal . 
fluorescein angiography revealed punctate pigment epithelial transmission defects . 
conclusions a 3-base pair deletion of codon _num3 or _num3 of the peripherin / rds gene can produce clinically disparate phenotypes even within the same family . . 
missense mutation in the alternative splice region of the pax6 gene in eye anomalies . 
the pax6 gene is involved in ocular morphogenesis , and pax6 mutations have been detected in various types of ocular anomalies , including aniridia , peters anomaly , corneal dystrophy , congenital cataract , and foveal hypoplasia . 
the gene encodes a transcriptional regulator that recognizes target genes through its paired-type dna-binding domain . 
the paired domain is composed of two distinct dna-binding subdomains , the n-terminal subdomain -lrb- nts -rrb- and the c-terminal subdomain -lrb- cts -rrb- , which bind respective consensus dna sequences . 
the human pax6 gene produces two alternative splice isoforms that have the distinct structure of the paired domain . 
the insertion , into the nts , of _num2 additional amino acids encoded by exon 5a abolishes the dna-binding activity of the nts and unmasks the dna-binding ability of the cts . 
thus , exon 5a appears to function as a molecular switch that specifies target genes . 
we ascertained a novel missense mutation in four pedigrees with peters anomaly , congenital cataract , axenfeldt anomaly , and / or foveal hypoplasia , which , to our knowledge , is the first mutation identified in the splice-variant region . 
a t -- > a transition at the 20th nucleotide position of exon 5a results in a val -- > asp -lrb- _ds -- > _ds -rrb- substitution at the 7th codon of the alternative splice region . 
functional analyses demonstrated that the v54d mutation slightly increased nts binding and decreased cts transactivation activity to almost half . . 
a detailed multipoint map of human chromosome _num1 provides evidence for linkage heterogeneity and position-specific recombination rates . 
utilizing the ceph reference panel and genotypic data for _num2 markers , we have constructed a 20-locus multipoint genetic map of human chromosome _num1 . 
new rflps are reported for four loci . 
the map integrates a high-resolution genetic map of 4p16 into a continuous map extending to 4q31 and an unlinked cluster of three loci at 4q35 . 
the _num2 linked markers form a continuous linkage group of _num3 cm in males and _num3 cm in females . 
likely genetic locations are provided for _num2 polymorphic anonymous sequences and _num2 gene-specific rflps . 
the map was constructed employing the linkage and crimap computational methodologies to build the multipoint map via a stepwise algorithm . 
a detailed 10-point map of the 4p16 region constructed from the ceph panel provides evidence for heterogeneity in the linkage maps constructed from families segregating for huntington disease -lrb- hd -rrb- . 
it additionally provides evidence for position-specific recombination frequencies in the telomeric region of 4p . . 
the murine homolog of the human breast and ovarian cancer susceptibility gene brca1 maps to mouse chromosome 11d . 
the recently cloned human breast and ovarian cancer susceptibility gene , brca1 , is located on human chromosome 17q21 . 
we have isolated murine genomic clones containing brca1 as a first step in generating a mouse model for the loss of brca1 function . 
a mouse genomic library was screened using probes corresponding to exon _num2 of the human brca1 gene . 
two overlapping mouse clones were identified that hybridized to human brca1 exons 9-12 . 
sequence analysis of _num1 . 
_num1 kb of the region of these clones corresponding to part of human exon _num2 revealed _num2 % nucleic acid identity but only _num2 % amino acid identity with the human gene . 
the longest of the mouse brca1 genomic clones maps to chromosome 11d , as determined by two-color fluorescence in situ hybridization . 
the synteny to human chromosome _num2 was confirmed by cohybridization with the mouse probe for the nf1-gene . 
this comparative study confirms that the relative location of the brca1 gene has been conserved between mice and humans . 
high residual arylsulfatase a -lrb- arsa -rrb- activity in a patient with late-infantile metachromatic leukodystrophy . 
we identified a patient suffering from late-infantile metachromatic leukodystrophy -lrb- mld -rrb- who has a residual arylsulfatase a -lrb- arsa -rrb- activity of about _num2 % . 
fibroblasts of the patient show significant sulfatide degradation activity exceeding that of adult mld patients . 
analysis of the arsa gene in this patient revealed heterozygosity for two new mutant alleles in one allele , deletion of c _num3 in exon _num1 leads to a frameshift and to a premature stop codon at amino acid position _num3 ; in the second allele , a g -- > a transition in exon _num1 causes a gly309 -- > ser substitution . 
transient expression of the mutant ser309-arsa resulted in only _num2 % enzyme activity of that observed in cells expressing normal arsa . 
the mutant arsa is correctly targeted to the lysosomes but is unstable . 
these findings are in contrast to previous results showing that the late-infantile type of mld is always associated with the complete absence of arsa activity . 
the expression of the mutant arsa protein may be influenced by particular features of oligodendrocytes , such that the level of mutant enzyme is lower in these cells than in others . . 
de novo deletions of snrpn exon _num1 in early human and mouse embryos result in a paternal to maternal imprint switch . 
prader-willi syndrome -lrb- pws -rrb- is a neurogenetic disease characterized by infantile hypotonia , gonadal hypoplasia , obsessive behaviour and neonatal feeding difficulties followed by hyperphagia , leading to profound obesity . 
pws is due to a lack of paternal genetic information at 15q11-q13 -lrb- ref . 
_num1 -rrb- . 
five imprinted , paternally expressed genes map to the pws region , mkrn3 -lrb- ref . 
_num1 -rrb- , ndn -lrb- ref . 
_num1 -rrb- , ndnl1 -lrb- ref . 
_num1 -rrb- , snrpn -lrb- refs 6-8 -rrb- and ipw -lrb- ref . 
_num1 -rrb- , as well as two poorly characterized framents designated par-1 and par-5 -lrb- ref . 
_num2 -rrb- . 
imprinting of this region involves a bipartite imprinting centre -lrb- ic -rrb- , which overlaps snrpn -lrb- refs _num2 , _num2 -rrb- . 
deletion of the snrpn promoter / exon _num1 region -lrb- the pws ic element -rrb- appears to impair the establishment of the paternal imprint in the male germ line and leads to pws . 
here we report a pws family in which the father is mosaic for an ic deletion on his paternal chromosome . 
the deletion chromosome has acquired a maternal methylation imprint in his somatic cells . 
we have made identical findings in chimaeric mice generated from two independent embryonic stem -lrb- es -rrb- cell lines harbouring a similar deletion . 
our studies demonstrate that the pws ic element is not only required for the establishment of the paternal imprint , but also for its postzygotic maintenance . . 
molecular characterization of two galactosemia mutations : correlation of mutations with highly conserved domains in galactose-1-phosphate uridyl transferase . 
galactosemia is an autosomal recessive disorder of human galactose metabolism caused by deficiency of the enzyme galactose-1-phosphate uridyl transferase -lrb- galt -rrb- . 
the molecular basis of this disorder is at present not well understood . 
we report here two missense mutations which result in low or undetectable enzymatic activity . 
first , we identified at nucleotide _num3 a transition which substitutes glutamine _num3 by arginine . 
the mutated glutamine is not only highly conserved in evolution -lrb- conserved also in escherichia coli and saccharomyces cerevisiae -rrb- , but is also two amino acid residues downstream from the active site histidine-proline-histidine triad and results in about _num2 % of normal enzymatic activity . 
the arginine _num3 mutation is the most common galactosemia mutation characterized to date . 
it accounts for one-fourth of the galactosemia alleles studied . 
second , we report the substitution of arginine _num3 by tryptophan , caused by a transition at nucleotide _num4 . 
the area surrounding this missense mutation is the most highly conserved domain in the homologous enzymes from e. coli , yeast , and humans , and this mutation results in undetectable enzymatic activity , suggesting that this is a severe mutation . 
this second mutation appears to be rare , since it was found only in the patient we sequenced . 
our data provide further evidence for the heterogeneity of galactosemia at the molecular level , heterogeneity which might be related to the variable clinical outcome observed in this disorder . . 
neurophysiologic follow-up of long-term dietary treatment in adult-onset adrenoleukodystrophy . 
objective to monitor the effects of dietary treatment in adult-onset adrenoleukodystrophy -lrb- ald -rrb- by means of somatosensory evoked potentials -lrb- seps -rrb- and motor evoked potentials -lrb- meps -rrb- . 
background seps and meps have proved useful in revealing signs of progressively severe , central dying-back axonopathy in early stages of adult-onset ald . 
methods eight patients with adult-onset ald underwent clinical examination , brain and spine mri , and sep and mep studies before and after _num1 years of lorenzos oil dietary therapy . 
results before treatment , brain mri was normal in five patients . 
three of these patients had pure spinal sep abnormalities and in the remaining two patients seps showed signs of involvement of both the spinal and cerebral somatosensory tracts . 
after treatment , the three patients with pure spinal abnormalities showed clinical and neurophysiologic worsening , whereas the two patients with a more advanced stage of disease -lrb- exhibited by seps -rrb- showed substantially unchanged clinical and neurophysiologic features . 
the patients with abnormal brain mri at the onset of treatment showed clinical and neurophysiologic worsening . 
conclusions lorenzos oil therapy had no effect on patients with evidence of inflammatory brain lesions . 
moreover , in patients without clear signs of inflammatory damage , this treatment does not modify significantly the natural course of the disease . 
however , because effective treatments should begin before the onset of severe neurologic symptoms , seps and meps should be considered to evaluate the effectiveness of other experimental treatments in the patient with a negative brain mri . 
the molecular basis of sjogren-larsson syndrome : mutation analysis of the fatty aldehyde dehydrogenase gene . 
sjogren-larsson syndrome -lrb- sls -rrb- is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by ichthyosis , mental retardation , spasticity , and deficient activity of fatty aldehyde dehydrogenase -lrb- faldh -rrb- . 
to define the molecular defects causing sls , we performed mutation analysis of the faldh gene in probands from _num2 kindreds with sls . 
among these patients , _num2 different mutations-including _num2 deletions , _num1 insertions , _num2 amino acid substitutions , _num1 nonsense mutations , _num1 splice-site defects , and _num1 complex mutations-were found . 
all of the patients with sls were found to carry mutations . 
nineteen of the missense mutations resulted in a severe reduction of faldh enzyme catalytic activity when expressed in mammalian cells , but one mutation -lrb- 798g -- > c -lsb- k266n -rsb- -rrb- seemed to have a greater effect on mrna stability . 
the splice-site mutations led to exon skipping or utilization of cryptic acceptor-splice sites . 
thirty-seven mutations were private , and _num2 mutations were seen in two or more probands of european or middle eastern descent . 
four single-nucleotide polymorphisms -lrb- snps -rrb- were found in the faldh gene . 
at least four of the common mutations -lrb- 551c -- > t , 682c -- > t , 733g -- > a , and _num3 + 1delg -rrb- were associated with multiple snp haplotypes , suggesting that these mutations originated independently on more than one occasion or were ancient sls genes that had undergone intragenic recombination . 
our results demonstrate that sls is caused by a strikingly heterogeneous group of mutations in the faldh gene and provide a framework for understanding the genetic basis of sls and the development of dna-based diagnostic tests . . 
severe-glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase -lrb- g6pd -rrb- deficiency associated with chronic hemolytic anemia , granulocyte dysfunction , and increased susceptibility to infections : description of a new molecular variant -lrb- g6pd barcelona -rrb- . 
molecular , kinetic , and functional studies were carried out on erythrocytes and leukocytes in a spanish male with g6pd deficiency , congenital nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia -lrb- cnsha -rrb- , and increased susceptibility to infections . 
g6pd activity was absent in patients red cells and was about _num1 % of normal in leukocytes . 
molecular studies using standard methods -lrb- who , _num4 -rrb- showed g6pd in the patient to have a slightly fast electrophoretic mobility at ph _num1 . 
_num1 with otherwise normal properties -lrb- heat stability at _num2 degrees c , apparent affinity for substrates , optimum ph , and utilization of substrate analogues -rrb- . 
other tests showed the patients granulocytes to engulf latex particles normally , but to have impaired reduction of nitroblue tetrazolium and ferricytochrome-c as well as reduced iodination . 
chemotaxis and random migration of the patients granulocytes were normal as were myeloperoxidase , leukocyte alkaline phosphatase -lrb- lap -rrb- , and ultrastructural features . 
the molecular characteristics of g6pd in the patient differed from those of all previously reported variants associated with cnsha , so the present variant was provisionally called g6pd barcelona to distinguish it from other g6pd variants previously described . 
possible mechanisms for the severe deficiency of g6pd in erythrocytes and granulocytes was investigated by studies on the immunologic specific activity of the mutant enzyme . 
mutations at the pax6 locus are found in heterogeneous anterior segment malformations including peters ' anomaly . 
mutation or deletion of the pax6 gene underlies many cases of aniridia . 
three lines of evidence now converge to implicate pax6 more widely in anterior segment malformations including peters anomaly . 
first , a child with peters anomaly is deleted for one copy of pax6 . 
second , affected members of a family with dominantly inherited anterior segment malformations , including peters anomaly are heterozygous for an r26g mutation in the pax6 paired box . 
third , a proportion of sey / + smalleye mice , heterozygous for a nonsense mutation in murine pax-6 , have an ocular phenotype resembling peters anomaly . 
we therefore propose that a variety of anterior segment anomalies may be associated with pax6 mutations . . 
in swedish families with hereditary prostate cancer , linkage to the hpc1 locus on chromosome 1q24-25 is restricted to families with early-onset prostate cancer . 
prostate cancer clusters in some families , and an estimated _num1 % -10 % of all cases are estimated to result from inheritance of prostate cancer-susceptibility genes . 
we previously reported evidence of linkage to the 1q24-25 region -lrb- hpc1 -rrb- in _num2 north american and swedish families each with multiple cases of prostate cancer -lrb- smith et al. _num4 -rrb- . 
in the present report we analyze _num2 -lrb- _num2 original and _num2 newly identified -rrb- swedish families with hereditary prostate cancer -lrb- hpc -rrb- that , on the basis of _num2 markers spanning a 25-cm interval within 1q24-25 , have evidence of linkage . 
in the complete set of families , a maximum two-point lod score of _num1 . 
_num2 was observed at d1s413 -lrb- at a recombination fraction -lsb- theta -rsb- of . 
_num1 -rrb- , with a maximum npl -lrb- nonparametric linkage -rrb- z score of _num1 . 
_num2 at d1s202 -lrb- p = . 
_num2 -rrb- . 
the evidence of linkage to this region originated almost exclusively from the subset of _num2 early-onset -lrb- age < _num2 years -rrb- families , which yielded a maximum lod score of _num1 . 
_num2 at d1s413 -lrb- straight theta = _num1 -rrb- and an npl z score of _num1 . 
_num2 at d1s422 -lrb- p = . 
_num2 -rrb- . 
estimates from heterogeneity tests suggest that , within sweden , as many as _num2 % of early-onset families had evidence of linkage to the hpc1 region . 
these results are consistent with the hypothesis of linkage to hpc1 in a subset of families with prostate cancer , particularly those with an early age at diagnosis . 
localisation of the myotonic dystrophy locus to 19q13.2-19q13 .3 and its relationship to twelve polymorphic loci on 19q . 
the order of fourteen polymorphic markers localised to the long arm of human chromosome _num2 has been established by multipoint mapping in a set of _num2 ceph -lrb- centre detude de polymorphisme humain , paris -rrb- reference families . 
we report here the linkage relationship of the myotonic dystrophy -lrb- dm -rrb- locus to twelve of these markers as studied in _num2 families with dm . 
the resulting genetic map is supported by the localisation of the dna markers in a panel of somatic cell hybrids . 
ten of the twelve markers have been shown to be proximal to the dm gene and two , prkcg and d19s22 , distal but at distances of approximately _num2 cm and _num2 cm , respectively . 
the closest proximal markers are apoc2 -lrb- apolipoprotein c-ii -rrb- and ckm -lrb- creatine kinase , muscle -rrb- approximately _num1 cm and _num1 cm from the dm gene respectively , in the order apoc2-ckm-dm . 
the distance between apoc2 , ckm and dm -lrb- of the order of _num1 million base pairs -rrb- and their known orientation should permit directional chromosome walking and jumping . 
the data presented here should enable us to determine whether or not new markers are distal to apoc2 / ckm and thus potentially flank the dm gene . . 
a recurrent expansion of a maternal allele with _num2 _ds repeats causes huntington disease in two sisters . 
large intergenerational repeat expansions of the _ds trinucleotide repeat in the hd gene have been well documented for the male germline . 
we describe a recurrent large expansion of a maternal allele with _num2 _ds repeats -lrb- to _num2 and _num2 repeats , respectively , in two daughters -rrb- associated with onset of huntington disease -lrb- hd -rrb- in the second and third decade in a family without history of hd . 
our findings give evidence of a gonadal mosaicism in the unaffected mother . 
we hypothesize that large expansions also occur in the female germline and that a negative selection of oocytes with long repeats might explain the different instability behavior of the male and the female germlines . . 
germline e-cadherin gene -lrb- cdh1 -rrb- mutations predispose to familial gastric cancer and colorectal cancer . 
inherited mutations in the e-cadherin gene -lrb- cdh1 -rrb- were described recently in three maori kindreds with familial gastric cancer . 
familial gastric cancer is genetically heterogeneous and it is not clear what proportion of gastric cancer susceptibility in non-maori populations is due to germline cdh1 mutations . 
therefore , we screened eight familial gastric cancer kindreds of british and irish origin for germline cdh1 mutations , by sscp analysis of all _num2 exons and flanking sequences . 
each family contained -lrb- i -rrb- two cases of gastric cancer in first degree relatives with one affected before age _num2 years ; or -lrb- ii -rrb- three or more cases of gastric cancer . 
novel germline cdh1 mutations -lrb- a nonsense and a splice site -rrb- were detected in two families -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- . 
both mutations were predicted to truncate the e-cadherin protein in the signal peptide domain . 
in one family there was evidence of non-penetrance and susceptibility to both gastric and colorectal cancer ; thus , in addition to six cases of gastric cancer , a cdh1 mutation carrier developed colorectal cancer at age _num2 years . 
we have confirmed that germline mutations in the cdh1 gene cause familial gastric cancer in non-maori populations . 
however , only a minority of familial gastric cancers can be accounted for by cdh1 mutations . 
loss of e-cadherin function has been implicated in the pathogenesis of sporadic colorectal and other cancers , and our findings provide evidence that germline cdh1 mutations predispose to early onset colorectal cancer . 
thus , cdh1 should be investigated as a cause of inherited susceptibility to both gastric and colorectal cancers . 
germinal mosaicism in duchenne muscular dystrophy . 
we have identified a duchenne muscular dystrophy -lrb- dmd -rrb- pedigree where the disease is associated with a molecular deletion within the dmd locus . 
we have examined the meiotic segregation products of the common female ancestor using marker restriction fragment length polymorphisms -lrb- rflps -rrb- detected by probes that lie within this deletion . 
these studies show that this female has transmitted three distinct types of x chromosome to her offspring . 
this observation may be explained by postulating that the mutation arose as a postzygotic deletion within this common ancestor , who was consequently germinally mosaic . . 
expression of the murine duchenne muscular dystrophy gene in muscle and brain . 
complementary dna clones were isolated that represent the _num1 terminal _num1 . 
_num1 kilobases of the murine duchenne muscular dystrophy -lrb- dmd -rrb- messenger rna -lrb- mrna -rrb- . 
mouse dmd mrna was detectable in skeletal and cardiac muscle and at a level approximately _num2 percent lower in brain . 
dmd mrna is also present , but at much lower than normal levels , in both the muscle and brain of three different strains of dystrophic mdx mice . 
the identification of dmd mrna in brain raises the possibility of a relation between human duchenne muscular dystrophy -lrb- dmd -rrb- gene expression and the mental retardation found in some dmd males . 
these results also provide evidence that the mdx mutations are allelic variants of mouse dmd gene mutations . 
human peroxisomal targeting signal-1 receptor restores peroxisomal protein import in cells from patients with fatal peroxisomal disorders . 
two peroxisomal targeting signals , pts1 and pts2 , are involved in the import of proteins into the peroxisome matrix . 
human patients with fatal generalized peroxisomal deficiency disorders fall into at least nine genetic complementation groups . 
cells from many of these patients are deficient in the import of pts1-containing proteins , but the causes of the protein-import defect in these patients are unknown . 
we have cloned and sequenced the human cdna homologue -lrb- pts1r -rrb- of the pichia pastoris pas8 gene , the pts1 receptor -lrb- mccollum , d. , e. monosov , and s. subramani . 
_num4 . 
j. cell biol . 
_num3 761-774 -rrb- . 
the pts1r mrna is expressed in all human tissues examined . 
antibodies to the human pts1r recognize this protein in human , monkey , rat , and hamster cells . 
the protein is localized mainly in the cytosol but is also found to be associated with peroxisomes . 
part of the peroxisomal pts1r protein is tightly bound to the peroxisomal membrane . 
antibodies to pts1r inhibit peroxisomal protein-import of pts1-containing proteins in a permeabilized cho cell system . 
in vitro-translated pts1r protein specifically binds a serine-lysine-leucine-peptide . 
a pas8-pts1r fusion protein complements the p. pastoris pas8 mutant . 
the pts1r cdna also complements the pts1 protein-import defect in skin fibroblasts from patients -- belonging to complementation group two -- diagnosed as having neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy or zellweger syndrome . 
the pts1r gene has been localized to a chromosomal location where no other peroxisomal disorder genes are known to map . 
our findings represent the only case in which the molecular basis of the protein-import deficiency in human peroxisomal disorders is understood . 
x-linked spastic paraplegia and pelizaeus-merzbacher disease are allelic disorders at the proteolipid protein locus . 
three forms of x-linked spastic paraplegia -lrb- spg -rrb- have been defined . 
one locus -lrb- spg _num1 -rrb- maps to xq28 while two clinically distinct forms map to xq22 -lrb- spg2 -rrb- . 
a rare x-linked dysmyelinating disorder of the central nervous system , pelizaeus-merzbacher disease -lrb- pmd -rrb- , has also been mapped to xq21-q22 , and is caused by mutations in the proteolipid protein gene -lrb- plp -rrb- which encodes two myelin proteins , plp and dm20 . 
while narrowing the genetic interval containing spg2 in a large pedigree , we found that plp was the closest marker to the disease locus , implicating plp as a possible candidate gene . 
we have found that a point mutation -lrb- his139tyr -rrb- in exon 3b of an affected male produces a mutant plp but a normal dm20 , and segregates with the disease -lrb- zmax = _num1 . 
_num2 , theta = _num1 . 
_num2 -rrb- . 
it appears , therefore , that spg2 and pmd are allelic disorders 
somatic-cell selection is a major determinant of the blood-cell phenotype in heterozygotes for glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase mutations causing severe enzyme deficiency . 
x-chromosome inactivation in mammals is regarded as an essentially random process , but the resulting somatic-cell mosaicism creates the opportunity for cell selection . 
in most people with red-blood-cell glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase -lrb- g6pd -rrb- deficiency , the enzyme-deficient phenotype is only moderately expressed in nucleated cells . 
however , in a small subset of hemizygous males who suffer from chronic nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia , the underlying mutations -lrb- designated class i -rrb- cause more-severe g6pd deficiency , and this might provide an opportunity for selection in heterozygous females during development . 
in order to test this possibility we have analyzed four heterozygotes for class i g6pd mutations two with g6pd portici -lrb- 1178g -- > a -rrb- and two with g6pd bari -lrb- 1187c -- > t -rrb- . 
we found that in fractionated blood cell types -lrb- including erythroid , myeloid , and lymphoid cell lineages -rrb- there was a significant excess of g6pd-normal cells . 
the significant concordance that we have observed in the degree of imbalance in the different blood-cell lineages indicates that a selective mechanism is likely to operate at the level of pluripotent blood stem cells . 
thus , it appears that severe g6pd deficiency affects adversely the proliferation or the survival of nucleated blood cells and that this phenotypic characteristic is critical during hematopoiesis . . 
the ataxia-telangiectasia gene product , a constitutively expressed nuclear protein that is not up-regulated following genome damage . 
the product of the ataxia-telangiectasia gene -lrb- atm -rrb- was identified by using an antiserum developed to a peptide corresponding to the deduced amino acid sequence . 
the atm protein is a single , high-molecular weight protein predominantly confined to the nucleus of human fibroblasts , but is present in both nuclear and microsomal fractions from human lymphoblast cells and peripheral blood lymphocytes . 
atm protein levels and localization remain constant throughout all stages of the cell cycle . 
truncated atm protein was not detected in lymphoblasts from ataxia-telangiectasia patients homozygous for mutations leading to premature protein termination . 
exposure of normal human cells to gamma-irradiation and the radiomimetic drug neocarzinostatin had no effect on atm protein levels , in contrast to a noted rise in _an levels over the same time interval . 
these findings are consistent with a role for the atm protein in ensuring the fidelity of dna repair and cell cycle regulation following genome damage . . 
molecular basis for duarte and los angeles variant galactosemia . 
human orythrocytes that are homozygous for the duarte enzyme variant of galactosemia -lrb- d / d -rrb- have a characteristic isoform on isoelectric focusing and _num2 % reduction in galactose-1-phosphate uridyltransferase -lrb- galt -rrb- enzyme activity . 
the duarte biochemical phenotype has a molecular genotype of n314d / n314d . 
the characteristic duarte isoform is also associated with a variant called the '' los angeles -lrb- la -rrb- phenotype , '' which has increased galt enzyme activity . 
we evaluated galt enzyme activity and screened the galt genes of _num3 patients with one or more n314d-containing alleles . 
we found seven with the la biochemical phenotype , and all had a 1721c -- > t transition in exon _num1 in cis with the n314d missense mutation . 
the 1721c -- > t transition is a neutral polymorphism for leucine at amino acid _num3 -lrb- l218l -rrb- . 
in pedigree analyses , this 1721c -- > t transition segregated with the la phenotype of increased galt activity in three different biochemical phenotypes -lrb- la / n , la / g , and la / d -rrb- . 
to determine the mechanism for increased activity of the la variant , we compared galt mrna , protein abundance , and enzyme thermal stability in lymphoblast cell lines of d and la phenotypes with comparable genotypes . 
galt protein abundance was increased in la compared to d alleles , but mrna was similar among all genotypes . 
when la / d and d / d galt biochemical phenotypes were compared to n / n galt phenotypes , both had _num2 % , as compared to _num2 % , reduction in galt activity in the wild type -lrb- n / n -rrb- after exposure at identical initial enzyme activity to _num2 degrees c for _num2 min . 
we conclude that the codon change n314d in cis with the base-pair transition 1721c -- > t produces the la variant of galactosemia and that this nucleotide change increases galt activity by increasing galt protein abundance without increasing transcription or decreasing thermal lability . 
a favorable codon bias for the mutated codon with consequently increased translation rates is postulated as the mechanism . . 
an intronic mutation in a lariat branchpoint sequence is a direct cause of an inherited human disorder -lrb- fish-eye disease -rrb- . 
the first step in the splicing of an intron from nuclear precursors of mrna results in the formation of a lariat structure . 
a distinct intronic nucleotide sequence , known as the branchpoint region , plays a central role in this process . 
we here describe a point mutation in such a sequence . 
three sisters were shown to suffer from fish-eye disease -lrb- fed -rrb- , a disorder which is caused by mutations in the gene coding for lecithin cholesterol acyltransferase -lrb- lcat -rrb- . 
sequencing of the lcat gene of all three probands revealed compound heterozygosity for a missense mutation in exon _num1 which is reported to underlie the fed phenotype , and a point mutation located in intron _num1 -lrb- ivs4 t-22c -rrb- . 
by performing in vitro expression of lcat minigenes and reverse transcriptase pcr on mrna isolated from leukocytes of the patient , this gene defect was shown to cause a null allele as the result of complete intron retention . 
in conclusion , we demonstrated that a point mutation in a lariat branchpoint consensus sequence causes a null allele in a patient with fed . 
in addition , our finding illustrates the importance of this sequence for normal human mrna processing . 
finally , this report provides a widely applicable strategy which ensures fast and effective screening for intronic defects that underlie differential gene expression . . 
genetic heterogeneity in hereditary breast cancer : role of brca1 and brca2 . 
the common hereditary forms of breast cancer have been largely attributed to the inheritance of mutations in the brca1 or brca2 genes . 
however , it is not yet clear what proportion of hereditary breast cancer is explained by brca1 and brca2 or by some other unidentified susceptibility gene -lrb- s -rrb- . 
we describe the proportion of hereditary breast cancer explained by brca1 or brca2 in a sample of north american hereditary breast cancers and assess the evidence for additional susceptibility genes that may confer hereditary breast or ovarian cancer risk . 
twenty-three families were identified through two high-risk breast cancer research programs . 
genetic analysis was undertaken to establish linkage between the breast or ovarian cancer cases and markers on chromosomes 17q -lrb- brca1 -rrb- and 13q -lrb- brca2 -rrb- . 
mutation analysis in the brca1 and brca2 genes was also undertaken in all families . 
the pattern of hereditary cancer in _num2 -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- of the _num2 families studied was attributed to brca1 by a combination of linkage and mutation analyses . 
no families were attributed to brca2 . 
five families -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- provided evidence against linkage to both brca1 and brca2 . 
no brca1 or brca2 mutations were detected in these five families . 
the brca1 or brca2 status of four families -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- could not be determined . 
brca1 and brca2 probably explain the majority of hereditary breast cancer that exists in the north american population . 
however , one or more additional genes may yet be found that explain some proportion of hereditary breast cancer . . 
the tumor suppressor gene brca1 is required for embryonic cellular proliferation in the mouse . 
mutations of the brca1 gone in humans are associated with predisposition to breast and ovarian cancers . 
we show here that brca1 + / - mice are normal and fertile and lack tumors by age eleven months . 
homozygous brca1 -lrb- 5-6 -rrb- mutant mice die before day _num1 . 
_num1 of embryogenesis . 
mutant embryos are poorly developed , with no evidence of mesoderm formation . 
the extraembryonic region is abnormal , but aggregation with wild-type tetraploid embryos does not rescue the lethality . 
in vivo , mutant embryos do not exhibit increased apoptosis but show reduced cell proliferation accompanied by decreased expression of cyclin e and mdm-2 , a regulator of _an activity . 
the expression of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor _an is dramatically increased in the mutant embryos . 
buttressing these in vivo observations is the fact that mutant blastocyst growth is grossly impaired in vitro . 
thus , the death of brca1 -lrb- 5-6 -rrb- mutant embryos prior to gastrulation may be due to a failure of the proliferative burst required for the development of the different germ layers . 
fusion genes resulting from alternative chromosomal translocations are overexpressed by gene-specific mechanisms in alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma . 
chromosomal translocations identified in hematopoietic and solid tumors result in deregulated expression of protooncogenes or creation of chimeric proteins with tumorigenic potential . 
in the pediatric solid tumor alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma , a consistent t -lrb- _num1 ; _num2 -rrb- -lrb- _an ; _an -rrb- or variant t -lrb- _num1 ; _num2 -rrb- -lrb- _an ; _an -rrb- translocation generates pax3-fkhr or pax7-fkhr fusion proteins , respectively . 
in this report , we demonstrate that in addition to functional alterations these translocations are associated with fusion product overexpression . 
furthermore , pax3-fkhr and pax7-fkhr overexpression occurs by distinct mechanisms . 
transcription of pax3-fkhr is increased relative to wild-type pax3 by a copy number-independent process . 
in contrast , pax7-fkhr overexpression results from fusion gene amplification . 
thus , gene-specific mechanisms were selected to overexpress pax3-fkhr and pax7-fkhr in alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma , presumably due to differences in regulation between the wild-type loci . 
we postulate that these overexpression mechanisms ensure a critical level of gene product for the oncogenic effects of these fusions . . 
pleiotropic defects in ataxia-telangiectasia protein-deficient mice . 
we have generated a mouse model for ataxia-telangiectasia by using gene targeting to generate mice that do not express the atm protein . 
atm-deficient mice are retarded in growth , do not produce mature sperm , and exhibit severe defects in t cell maturation while going on to develop thymomas . 
atm-deficient fibroblasts grow poorly in culture and display a high level of double-stranded chromosome breaks . 
atm-deficient thymocytes undergo spontaneous apoptosis in vitro significantly more than controls . 
atm-deficient mice then exhibit many of the same symptoms found in ataxia-telangiectasia patients and in cells derived from them . 
furthermore , we demonstrate that the atm protein exists as two discrete molecular species , and that loss of one or of both of these can lead to the development of the disease . . 
muscle expression of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency in different variants . 
muscle expression of g6pd deficiency has been investigated in mediterranean , seattle-like and a-variants . 
g6pd activity was detected in samples obtained from biopsies on the quadriceps muscle of seven males and one female . 
the type of genetic variant was determined by molecular analysis of dna , extracted from blood samples . 
all variants showed the enzyme defect in muscle . 
a statistically significant relationship was found in the activity of g6pd between erythrocytes and muscle of the male subjects -lrb- r = _num1 . 
_num3 ; p = _num1 . 
_num5 -rrb- . 
the equation for the best fit line was y = _num1 . 
390x + _num1 . 
_num3 _num3 . 
the results suggest that , for a given variant , the extent of the enzyme defect in muscle may be determined , using this equation , from the g6pd activity of erythrocytes pten , a putative protein tyrosine phosphatase gene mutated in human brain , breast , and prostate cancer . 
mapping of homozygous deletions on human chromosome 10q23 has led to the isolation of a candidate tumor suppressor gene , pten , that appears to be mutated at considerable frequency in human cancers . 
in preliminary screens , mutations of pten were detected in _num2 % -lrb- 13 / 42 -rrb- of glioblastoma cell lines and xenografts , _num3 % -lrb- 4 / 4 -rrb- of prostate cancer cell lines , _num1 % -lrb- 4 / 65 -rrb- of breast cancer cell lines and xenografts , and _num2 % -lrb- 3 / 18 -rrb- of primary glioblastomas . 
the predicted pten product has a protein tyrosine phosphatase domain and extensive homology to tensin , a protein that interacts with actin filaments at focal adhesions . 
these homologies suggest that pten may suppress tumor cell growth by antagonizing protein tyrosine kinases and may regulate tumor cell invasion and metastasis through interactions at focal adhesions . . 
somatic alterations of the dpc4 gene in human colorectal cancers in vivo . 
background & aims the chromosome region 18q21 has been shown to be frequently deleted in colorectal cancers , and such frequent allelic loss is a hallmark of the presence of a tumor-suppressor gene . 
the dpc4 gene , which is located at 18q21 , has been identified as a tumor-suppressor gene from examination of pancreatic cancers . 
the aim of the present study was to determine if it might also be altered in colorectal cancers . 
methods mutation analyses of the dpc4 gene were performed on complementary dna samples from _num2 primary colorectal cancer specimens using a combination of polymerase chain reaction , single-strand conformation polymorphism , and dna sequencing . 
results four missense mutations producing amino acid substitutions and a somatic 12-base pair deletion in the coding region of the dpc4 gene were detected in the _num2 cancers -lrb- _num2 % ; _num1 of _num2 -rrb- . 
conclusions the dpc4 gene may play a role as a tumor-suppressor gene in a fraction of colorectal cancers ; however , while allelic loss at 18q21 is very often seen in colorectal cancers , only a minority show dpc4 mutations , suggesting that there might be another tumor-suppressor gene in this chromosome region . . 
complete genomic sequence and analysis of _num3 kb of human dna containing the gene brca1 . 
over _num3 distinct disease-associated mutations have been identified in the breast-ovarian cancer susceptibility gene brca1 . 
loss of the wild-type allele in > _num2 % of tumors from patients with inherited brca1 mutations indicates tumor suppressive function . 
the low incidence of somatic mutations suggests that brca1 inactivation in sporadic tumors occurs by alternative mechanisms , such as interstitial chromosomal deletion or reduced transcription . 
to identify possible features of the brca1 genomic region that may contribute to chromosomal instability as well as potential transcriptional regulatory elements , a _num3 , 143-bp dna sequence encompassing brca1 was obtained by random sequencing of four cosmids identified from a human chromosome _num2 specific library . 
the _num2 exons of brca1 span an 81-kb region that has an unusually high density of alu repetitive dna -lrb- _num2 . 
_num1 % -rrb- , but relatively low density -lrb- _num1 . 
_num1 % -rrb- of other repetitive sequences . 
brca1 intron lengths range in size from _num3 bp to _num1 . 
_num1 kb and contain the intragenic microsatellite markers d17s1323 , d17s1322 , and d17s855 , which localize to introns _num2 , _num2 , and _num2 , respectively . 
in addition to brca1 , the contig contains two complete genes rho7 , a member of the rho family of gtp binding proteins , and vat1 , an abundant membrane protein of cholinergic synaptic vesicles . 
partial sequences of the 1a1-3b b-box protein pseudogene and ifp _num2 , an interferon induced leucine zipper protein , reside within the contig . 
an _an ribosomal protein pseudogene is embedded in brca1 intron _num2 . 
the order of genes on the chromosome is centromere-1fp 35-vat1-rho7-brca1-1a1-3b-telomere type ii human complement c2 deficiency . 
allele-specific amino acid substitutions -lrb- ser189 -- > phe ; gly444 -- > arg -rrb- cause impaired c2 secretion . 
type ii complement protein c2 deficiency is characterized by a selective block in c2 secretion . 
the type ii c2 null allele -lrb- c2q0 -rrb- is linked to two major histocompatibility haplotypes -lrb- mhc -rrb- that differ from the mhc of the more common type i c2 deficiency . 
to determine the molecular basis of type ii deficiency the two type ii c2q0 genes were isolated and transfected separately into l-cells . 
subsequent molecular biology , biosynthetic , and immunofluorescence studies demonstrated that c2 secretion is impaired in type ii c2 deficiency because of different missense mutations at highly conserved residues in each of the c2q0 alleles . 
one is in exon _num1 -lrb- nucleotide _an -- > t ; ser189 -- > phe -rrb- of the c2q0 gene linked to the mhc haplotype _an , _an , drw1 , bfs , c4a0b1 . 
the other is in exon _num2 -lrb- _an -- > a ; gly444 -- > arg -rrb- of the c2q0 gene linked to the mhc haplotype a2 , b5 , drw4 , bfs , c4a3b1 . 
each mutant c2 gene product is retained early in the secretory pathway . 
these mutants provide models for elucidating the c2 secretory pathway . . 
targeted disruption of atm leads to growth retardation , chromosomal fragmentation during meiosis , immune defects , and thymic lymphoma . 
atm , the gene mutated in the inherited human disease ataxia-telangiectasia , is a member of a family of kinases involved in dna metabolism and cell-cycle checkpoint control . 
to help clarify the physiological roles of the atm protein , we disrupted the atm gene in mice through homologous recombination . 
initial evaluation of the atm knockout animals indicates that inactivation of the mouse atm gene recreates much of the phenotype of ataxia-telangiectasia . 
the homozygous mutant -lrb- atm - / - -rrb- mice are viable , growth-retarded , and infertile . 
the infertility of atm - / - mice results from meiotic failure . 
meiosis is arrested at the zygotene / pachytene stage of prophase i as a result of abnormal chromosomal synapsis and subsequent chromosome fragmentation . 
immune defects also are evident in atm - / - mice , including reduced numbers of _an + cd43 - pre-b cells , thymocytes , and peripheral t cells , as well as functional impairment of t-cell-dependent immune responses . 
the cerebella of atm - / - mice appear normal by histologic examination at _num1 to _num1 months and the mice have no gross behavioral abnormalities . 
the majority of mutant mice rapidly develop thymic lymphomas and die before _num1 months of age . 
these findings indicate that the atm gene product plays an essential role in a diverse group of cellular processes , including meiosis , the normal growth of somatic tissues , immune development , and tumor suppression . . 
the _num1 ' end of the brca1 gene lies within a duplicated region of human chromosome 17q21 . 
to begin to address the hypothesis that abnormal regulation of the breast / ovarian cancer susceptibility gene brca1 is a critical step in sporadic breast / ovarian tumorigenesis , we have determined the detailed structure of the brca1 genomic region . 
we show that this region of the genome contains a tandem duplication of approximately _num2 kilobases , which results in two copies of brca1 exons _num1 and _num1 , of exons _num1 and _num1 of the adjacent 1a1-3b gene and of the previously reported _num3 base pair intergenic region . 
sequence analysis of the duplicated exons of brca1 and 1a1-3b and flanking genomic dna reveals maintenance of the intron-exon structure and a high degree of nucleotide sequence identity , suggesting that these are non-processed pseudogenes and that the duplication is a recent event in evolutionary terms . 
we also show that a processed pseudogene of the acidic ribosomal phosphoprotein p1 -lrb- arpp1 -rrb- is inserted directly upstream of pseudo-brca1 exon 1a . 
we believe that these findings could not only confound brca1 mutation analysis , but could have implications for the normal and abnormal regulation of brca1 transcription , translation and function . . 
atm and _an cooperate in apoptosis and suppression of tumorigenesis , but not in resistance to acute radiation toxicity . 
mutations in atm and _an cause the human cancer-associated diseases ataxia-telangiectasia and li-fraumeni syndrome , respectively . 
the two genes are believed to interact in a number of pathways , including regulation of dna damage-induced cell-cycle checkpoints , apoptosis and radiation sensitivity , and cellular proliferation . 
atm-null mice , as well as those null for _an , develop mainly t-cell lymphomas , supporting the view that these genes have similar roles in thymocyte development . 
to study the interactions of these two genes on an organismal level , we bred mice heterozygous for null alleles of both atm and _an to produce all genotypic combinations . 
mice doubly null for atm and _an exhibited a dramatic acceleration of tumour formation relative to singly null mice , indicating that both genes collaborate in a significant manner to prevent tumorigenesis . 
with respect to their roles in apoptosis , loss of atm rendered thymocytes only partly resistant to irradiation-induced apoptosis , whereas additional loss of _an engendered complete resistance . 
this implies that the irradiation-induced atm and _an apoptotic pathways are not completely congruent . 
finally-and in contrast to prior predictions-atm and _an do not appear to interact in acute radiation toxicity , suggesting a separate atm effector pathway for this dna damage response and having implications for the prognosis and treatment of human tumours . . 
molecular bases of c7 deficiency : three different defects . 
the molecular basis of c7 deficiency has been investigated in two irish families and a number of israeli families of moroccan sephardic jewish origin . 
exon pcr and sequencing revealed a heterozygous point mutation at the _num1 splice acceptor site of intron _num1 in one irish family . 
in the other irish family , exons _num1 and _num1 failed to amplify and they were shown to be deleted . 
marker haplotype studies of the c6 and c7 gene region and southern blots show that the irish family with the splice defect also segregate for the deletion , which is not easily detected in heterozygotes . 
the israeli c7-deficient cases all share a c7 haplotype and are homozygous for a mis-sense mutation in exon _num1 . 
however , one individual is heterozygous for markers at adjacent c6 loci , showing that there has been an intergenic recombination and suggesting that the deficiency mutation is of appreciable antiquity . . 
identification of wasp mutations , mutation hotspots and genotype-phenotype disparities in _num2 patients with the wiskott-aldrich syndrome . 
the wiskott-aldrich syndrome -lrb- was -rrb- , an x-linked immunodeficiency disease caused by mutation in the recently isolated gene encoding was protein -lrb- wasp -rrb- , is known to be associated with extensive clinical heterogeneity . 
cumulative mutation data have revealed that wasp genotypes are also highly variable among was patients , but the relationship of phenotype with genotype in this disease remains unclear . 
to address this issue we characterized wasp mutations in _num2 unrelated was patients , including _num2 boys with severe classical was and _num1 boys expressing mild forms of the disease , and then examined the degree of correlation of these as well as all previously published wasp mutations with disease severity . 
by analysis of these compiled mutation data , we demonstrated clustering of wasp mutations within the four most n-terminal exons of the gene and also identified several sites within this region as hotspots for wasp mutation . 
these characteristics were observed , however , in both severe and mild cases of the disease . 
similarly , while the cumulative data revealed a predominance of missense mutations among the wasp gene lesions observed in boys with isolated thrombocytopenia , missense mutations were not exclusively associated with milder was phenotypes , but also comprised a substantial portion -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- of the wasp gene defects found in patients with severe disease . 
these findings , as well as the detection of identical wasp mutations in patients with disparate phenotypes , reveal a lack of phenotype concordance with genotype in was and thus imply that phenotypic outcome in this disease can not be reliably predicted solely on the basis of wasp genotypes . . 
identification and chromosomal localization of atm , the mouse homolog of the ataxia-telangiectasia gene . 
atm , the mouse homolog of the human atm gene defective in ataxia-telangiectasia -lrb- a-t -rrb- , has been identified . 
the entire coding sequence of the atm transcript was cloned and found to contain an open reading frame encoding a protein of _num4 amino acids with _num2 % overall identity and _num2 % similarity to the human atm protein . 
variable levels of expression of atm were observed in different tissues . 
fluorescence in situ hybridization and linkage analysis located the atm gene on mouse chromosome _num1 , band 9c , in a region homologous to the atm region on human chromosome 11q22-q23 . . 
mutation of msh3 in endometrial cancer and evidence for its functional role in heteroduplex repair . 
many human tumours have length alterations in repetitive sequence elements . 
although this microsatellite instability has been attributed to mutations in four dna mismatch repair genes in hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer -lrb- hnpcc -rrb- kindreds , many sporadic tumours exhibit instability but no detectable mutations in these genes . 
it is therefore of interest to identify other genes that contribute to this instability . 
in yeast , mutations in several genes , including rth and msh3 , cause microsatellite instability . 
thus , we screened _num2 endometrial carcinomas with microsatellite instability for alterations in fen1 -lrb- the human homolog of rth -rrb- and in msh3 -lrb- refs 12-14 -rrb- . 
although we found no fen1 mutations , a frameshift mutation in msh3 was observed in an endometrial carcinoma and in an endometrial carcinoma cell line . 
extracts of the cell line were deficient in repair of dna substrates containing mismatches or extra nucleotides . 
introducing chromosome _num1 , encoding the msh3 gene , into the mutant cell line increased the stability of some but not all microsatellites . 
extracts of these cells repaired certain substrates containing extra nucleotides , but were deficient in repair of those containing mismatches or other extra nucleotides . 
a subsequent search revealed a second gene mutation in hhua cells , a missense mutation in the msh6 gene . 
together the data suggest that the msh3 gene encodes a product that functions in repair of some but not all pre-mutational intermediates , its mutation in tumours can result in genomic instability and , as in yeast , msh3 and msh6 are partially redundant for mismatch repair . . 
kniest dysplasia : dr. w. kniest , his patient , the molecular defect . 
kniest dysplasia is a severe chondrodysplasia caused by the defective formation of type ii collagen . 
we report about dr. kniest , who first described the condition in _num4 , and his patient , who , at the age of _num2 years is severely handicapped with short stature , restricted joint mobility , and blindness but is mentally alert and leads an active life . 
molecular analysis of the patients dna showed a single base -lrb- g -rrb- deletion involving the _ds dinucleotide at the start of intron _num2 destroying a splice site of the col2a1 gene . 
this is in accordance with molecular findings in other patients with kniest dysplasia and confirms , in the original patient , that the disorder is caused by small inframe deletions often due to exon skipping as a result of col2a1 splice site mutations . . 
ashkenazi jewish population frequencies for common mutations in brca1 and brca2 . 
brca1 and brca2 are the two major identified causes of inherited breast cancer , with mutations in either gene conferring up to 80-90 % lifetime risk of breast cancer in carrier females . 
mutations in brca1 account for approximately _num2 % of familial breast cancer and _num2 % of inherited breast / ovarian cancer , whereas mutations in brca2 account for a comparable percentage of inherited breast cancer cases . 
over _num2 distinct brca1 mutations and a growing list of brca2 mutations have been identified , with the majority resulting in protein truncation . 
a specific brca1 mutation , 185delag , has a reported increased carrier frequency of approximately _num1 . 
_num1 % in the ashkenazi jewish population , but is also found in rare non-jewish patients with a different haplotype . 
the 6174delt mutation in brca2 was recently identified as a frequent mutation in _num1 out of _num3 ashkenazi jewish women diagnosed with breast cancer by age _num2 -lrb- ref . 
_num1 -rrb- , as well as in three ashkenazi male breast cancer patients . 
we have conducted a large-scale population study to investigate the prevalence of specific brca1 and brca2 mutations in ashkenazi jewish individuals who were unselected for breast cancer . 
brca1 mutation screening on approximately _num1 , _num3 ashkenazi jewish samples determined a carrier frequency of _num1 . 
_num2 % for the 185delag mutation and _num1 . 
_num2 % for the 5382insc mutation . 
brca2 analysis on _num1 , _num3 individuals from the same population showed a carrier frequency of _num1 . 
_num2 % for the 6174delt mutation . 
this expanded population-based study confirms that the brca1 185delag mutation and the brca2 6174delt mutation constitute the two most frequent mutation alleles predisposing to hereditary breast cancer among the ashkenazim , and suggests a relatively lower penetrance for the 6174delt mutation in brca2 mapping the homolog of the human rb1 gene to chromosome _num2 of higher primates . 
the rb1 gene has been implicated with retinoblastoma and is located on human chromosome -lrb- chr -rrb- 13q14 . 
_num1 _num1 . 
a unique sequence human rb1 cosmid dna probe has been used to localize this region on apes chr _num2 by the fish technique . 
the conservation of the rb1 gene in higher primates at the corresponding equivalent chromosome locus -lrb- 14q14 -rrb- of the human may serve as a phylogenetic marker to further trace the evolutionary pathway of human descent . 
difficulties in the ascertainment of c9 deficiency : lessons to be drawn from a compound heterozygote c9-deficient subject . 
a group of patients with long-surviving mismatched kidney allografts were investigated for complement function using haemolytic assays in agarose gels . 
one patient was found to have no alternative pathway activity but a low normal classical pathway . 
surprisingly , investigation revealed that the patients complement was normal for all components except c9 , which was functionally absent . 
the patient was shown to be heterozygous for dna markers in the c6 , c7 and c9 region of chromosome _num1 and therefore appears to be a compound heterozygote for two uncharacterized c9 deficiency genes . 
serological analysis by elisa revealed that he has trace concentrations of a non-functional c9 molecule . 
western blot analysis was not sufficiently sensitive to permit detection of this molecule . 
we hypothesize that the patient is heterozygous for a complete deficiency of c9 and for a gene directing hyposynthesis of a defective c9 . 
we also suggest that c9 deficiency may be more common among caucasians than has been reported . . 
moderate intergenerational and somatic instability of a 55-ctg repeat in transgenic mice . 
myotonic dystrophy -lrb- dm -rrb- is associated with the expansion of a -lrb- _ds -rrb- n trinucleotide repeat in the _num1 untranslated region -lrb- utr -rrb- of the dm protein kinase gene -lrb- dmpk -rrb- . 
the -lrb- _ds -rrb- n repeat is polymorphic and varies in size between _num1 and _num2 repeats in unaffected individuals whereas in affected patients there are between _num2 and _num1 , _num3 ctgs . 
the size of the -lrb- _ds -rrb- n repeat , which increases through generations , generally correlates with clinical severity and age of onset . 
the instability of the _ds repeat appears to depend on its size as well as on the sex of the transmitting parent . 
moreover , mitotic instability analysis of different human dm tissues shows length mosaicism between different cell lineages . 
the molecular mechanisms of triplet instability remain elusive . 
to investigate the role of genomic sequences in instability , we produced transgenic mice containing a 45-kb genomic segment with a 55-ctg repeat cloned from a mildly affected patient . 
in contrast to other mouse models containing _ds repeats within cdnas , these mice showed both intergenerational and somatic repeat instability . . 
mutations in the arginine-rich protein gene -lrb- arp -rrb- in pancreatic cancer . 
the arp gene encodes a highly conserved arginine-rich protein from chromosomal band 3p21 . 
_num1 _num1 . 
at the cytogenetic level this region is frequently deleted in a variety of different solid tumors , although not in pancreatic cancer . 
we have reported the presence of a specific mutation -lrb- atg50 -- > _ds -rrb- or deletion of codon _num2 of the arp gene in different tumor types -lrb- shridhar et al. , _num4 , 1996a -rrb- . 
in the present study , we have observed mutations involving codon _num2 in _num2 of _num2 pancreatic tumors . 
the frequency of codon _num2 mutation is roughly the same in pancreatic tumors as in the other types of tumors previously examined . 
in addition , we have detected mutations at codon _num2 in multiple pcr subclones in two other pancreatic tumors . 
mutations in the arp gene are thus commonly observed in pancreatic cancer , as well as many other cancers . 
heterogeneity in schwartz-jampel chondrodystrophic myotonia . 
the schwartz-jampel syndrome -lrb- sjs ; chondrodystrophic myotonia ; mck _num3 , _num3 -rrb- is a recessively inherited condition defined by myotonia , short stature , and bone dysplasia . 
genetic linkage between sjs and chromosomal region 1q36-34 has been observed in several families , but the gene has not yet been identified . 
we studied the clinical and radiological features in _num2 patients from the literature and _num1 own patients trying to identify distinct subgroups . 
in addition , we tested genetic linkage to the sjs locus on chromosome _num1 in one family with two affected sibs . 
we found that a group of patients have mild skeletal changes which may be secondary consequences of myotonia , while another group of patients appear to have primary bone dysplasia with myotonia . 
within this latter group , there are differences in age of manifestation , clinical course and pattern of bone changes . 
we tentatively isolate three different types of sjs type 1a , usually recognized in childhood , with moderate bone dysplasia , corresponding to the original descriptions of schwartz , jampel and aberfeld ; type 1b , similar to type 1a but recognizable at birth , with more pronounced bone dysplasia resembling kniest dysplasia ; and type _num1 , manifest at birth , with increased mortality and bone dysplasia resembling pyle disease . 
genetic analysis of the family with two sibs affected by sjs type _num1 showed evidence against linkage to chromosome 1p36-34 . 
conclusions sjs is clinically and radiologically heterogeneous . 
the causes of heterogeneity are not known yet but are likely to include both different mutations at the sjs locus on chromosome _num1 and the presence of a second sjs locus . 
a tentative clinico-radiological classification can be useful for the characterization of patients and the development of genotype-phenotype correlations . . 
x-linked adrenoleukodystrophy is a frequent cause of idiopathic addison 's disease in young adult male patients . 
x-linked adrenoleukodystrophy -lrb- ald -rrb- is a genetic disease associated with demyelination of the central nervous system , adrenal insufficiency , and accumulation of very long chain fatty acids in tissue and body fluids . 
ald is due to mutation of a gene located in xq28 that encodes a peroxisomal transporter protein of unknown function . 
the most common phenotype of ald is the cerebral form -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- that develops in boys between 5-12 yr . 
adrenomyeloneuropathy -lrb- amn -rrb- involves the spinal cord and peripheral nerves in young adults -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- . 
adrenal insufficiency -lrb- addisons disease -rrb- is frequently associated with amn or cerebral ald and may remain the only clinical expression of ald -lrb- _num1 % of cases -rrb- . 
the prevalence of ald among adults with addisons disease remains unknown . 
to evaluate this prevalence , we performed biochemical analysis of very long chain fatty acids in _num2 male patients -lrb- age ranging from 12-45 yr at diagnosis -rrb- previously diagnosed as having primary idiopathic adrenocortical insufficiency . 
in _num1 of _num2 patients -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- , elevated plasma concentrations of very long chain fatty acids were detected . 
none of these patients had adrenocortical antibodies . 
by electrophysiological tests and magnetic resonance imaging it was determined that two patients had cerebral ald , one had adrenomyeloneuropathy with cerebral involvement , and two had preclinical amn . 
our data support the hypothesis that ald is a frequent cause of idiopathic addisons disease in children and adults . . 
low incidence of brca2 mutations in breast carcinoma and other cancers . 
inherited mutant alleles of familial tumour suppressor genes predispose individuals to particular types of cancer . 
in addition to an involvement in inherited susceptibility to cancer , these tumour suppressor genes are targets for somatic mutations in sporadic cancers of the same type found in the familial forms . 
an exception is brca1 , which contributes to a significant fraction of familial breast and ovarian cancer , but undergoes mutation at very low rates in sporadic breast and ovarian cancers . 
this finding suggests that other genes may be the principal targets for somatic mutation in breast carcinoma . 
a second , recently identified familial breast cancer gene , brca2 -lrb- refs 5-8 -rrb- , accounts for a proportion of breast cancer roughly equal to brca1 . 
like brca1 , brca2 behaves as a dominantly inherited tumour suppressor gene . 
individuals who inherit one mutant allele are at increased risk for breast cancer , and the tumours they develop lose the wild-type allele by heterozygous deletion . 
the brca2 coding sequence is huge , composed of _num2 exons that span _num2 , _num3 bp . 
here we investigate the rate of brca2 mutation in sporadic breast cancers and in a set of cell lines that represent twelve other tumour types . 
surprisingly , mutations in brca2 are infrequent in cancers including breast carcinoma . 
however , a probable germline mutation in a pancreatic tumour cell line suggests a role for brca2 in susceptibility to pancreatic cancer . . 
type iii collagen is crucial for collagen i fibrillogenesis and for normal cardiovascular development . 
type iii collagen is a fibrillar forming collagen comprising three alpha1 -lrb- iii -rrb- chains and is expressed in early embryos and throughout embryogenesis . 
in the adult , type iii collagen is a major component of the extracellular matrix in a variety of internal organs and skin . 
mutations in the col3a1 gene have been implicated as a cause of type iv ehlers-danlos syndrome , a disease leading to aortic rupture in early adult life . 
to directly study the role of col3a1 in development and disease , we have inactivated the col3a1 gene in embryonic stem cells by homologous recombination . 
the mutated allele was transmitted through the mouse germ line and homozygous mutant animals were derived from heterozygous intercrosses . 
about _num2 % of the homozygous mutant animals survived to adulthood but have a much shorter life span compared with wild-type mice . 
the major cause of death of mutant mice was rupture of the major blood vessels , similar to patients with type iv ehlers-danlos syndrome . 
ultrastructural analysis of tissues from mutant mice revealed that type iii collagen is essential for normal collagen i fibrillogenesis in the cardiovascular system and other organs . . 
the incidence of pax6 mutation in patients with simple aniridia : an evaluation of mutation detection in _num2 cases . 
twelve aniridia patients , five with a family history and seven presumed to be sporadic , were exhaustively screened in order to test what proportion of people with aniridia , uncomplicated by associated anomalies , carry mutations in the human pax6 gene . 
mutations were detected in _num2 % of the cases . 
three mutation detection techniques were used to determine if one method was superior for this gene . 
the protein truncation test -lrb- ptt -rrb- was used on rt-pcr products , sscp on genomic pcr amplifications , and chemical cleavage of mismatch on both rt-pcr and genomic amplifications . 
for rt-pcr products , only the translated portion of the gene was screened . 
on genomic products exons _num1 to _num2 -lrb- including _num3 bp of the _num1 untranslated sequence and all intron / exon boundaries -rrb- were screened , as was a neuroretina specific enhancer in intron _num1 . 
ten of the possible _num2 mutations in the five familial cases and five of the sporadic patients were found , all of which conformed to a functional outcome of haploinsufficiency . 
five were splice site mutations -lrb- one in the donor site of intron _num1 , two in the donor site of intron _num1 , one in each of the acceptor sites of introns _num1 and _num1 -rrb- and five were nonsense mutations in exons _num1 , _num1 , _num2 , _num2 , and _num2 . 
sscp analysis of individually amplified exons , with which nine of the _num2 mutations were seen , was the most useful detection method for pax6 . . 
germline mutations in the _num1 ' part of apc exon _num2 do not result in truncated proteins and are associated with attenuated adenomatous polyposis coli . 
familial adenomatous polyposis -lrb- fap -rrb- is an inherited predisposition to colorectal cancer characterized by the development of numerous adenomatous polyps predominantly in the colorectal region . 
germline mutations in the adenomatous polyposis coli -lrb- apc -rrb- gene are responsible for most cases of fap . 
mutations at the _num1 end of apc are known to be associated with a relatively mild form of the disease , called attenuated adenomatous polyposis coli -lrb- aapc -rrb- . 
we identified a frameshift mutation in the _num1 part of exon _num2 , resulting in a stop codon at _num4 , in a large dutch kindred with aapc . 
western blot analysis of lymphoblastoid cell lines derived from affected family members from this kindred , as well as from a previously reported swiss family carrying a frameshift mutation at codon _num4 and displaying a similar attenuated phenotype , showed only the wild-type apc protein . 
our study indicates that chain-terminating mutations located in the _num1 part of apc do not result in detectable truncated polypeptides and we hypothesize that this is likely to be the basis for the observed aapc phenotype . . 
absence of disease phenotype and intergenerational stability of the _ds repeat in transgenic mice expressing the human huntington disease transcript . 
the mutation underlying huntington disease -lrb- hd -rrb- is _ds expansion in the first exon of the hd gene . 
in order to investigate the role of _ds expansion in the pathogenesis of hd , we have produced transgenic mice containing the full length human hd cdna with _num2 _ds repeats . 
by _num1 year , these mice have no behavioral abnormalities and morphometric analysis at _num1 -lrb- one animal -rrb- and _num1 -lrb- two animals -rrb- months age revealed no changes . 
despite high levels of mrna expression , there was no evidence of the hd gene product in any of these transgenic mice . 
in vitro transfection studies indicated that the inclusion of _num3 bp of the _num1 utr in the cdna construct and the presence of a frameshift mutation at nucleotide _num4 prevented expression of the hd cdna . 
these findings suggest that the pathogenesis of hd is not mediated through dna-protein interaction and that presence of the rna transcript with an expanded _ds repeat is insufficient to cause the disease . 
rather , translation of the _ds is crucial for the pathogenesis of hd . 
in contrast to that seen in humans , the _ds repeat in these mice was remarkably stable in _num2 meioses . 
this suggests that genomic sequences may play a critical role in influencing repeat instability . . 
detection of heterozygous mutations in brca1 using high density oligonucleotide arrays and two-colour fluorescence analysis . 
the ability to scan a large gene rapidly and accurately for all possible heterozygous mutations in large numbers of patient samples will be critical for the future of medicine . 
we have designed high-density arrays consisting of over _num2 , _num3 oligonucleotides 20-nucleotides -lrb- nt -rrb- in length to screen for a wide range of heterozygous mutations in the _num1 . 
45-kilobases -lrb- kb -rrb- exon _num2 of the hereditary breast and ovarian cancer gene brca1 . 
reference and test samples were co-hybridized to these arrays and differences in hybridization patterns quantitated by two-colour analysis . 
fourteen of fifteen patient samples with known mutations were accurately diagnosed , and no false positive mutations were identified in _num2 control samples . 
eight single nucleotide polymorphisms were also readily detected . 
dna chip-based assays may provide a valuable new technology for high-throughput cost-efficient detection of genetic alterations . 
colchicine in breast milk of patients with familial mediterranean fever . 
objective . 
to clarify whether colchicine is excreted in breast milk , and to compare its concentrations in the serum and breast milk of lactating women who have familial mediterranean fever -lrb- fmf -rrb- . 
methods . 
using a specific radioimmunoassay , we determined colchicine concentrations in the serum and breast milk of _num1 patients at various time points , following oral administration of the drug . 
the study evaluated _num1 patients with fmf who had been taking colchicine on a long-term basis . 
results . 
colchicine was found to be excreted in breast milk . 
its levels ranged between _num1 . 
_num1 and _num1 . 
_num1 ng / ml , which were similar to those found in the serum -lrb- parallel concentration time curves -rrb- . 
however , there appeared to be a considerable variation in colchicine milk concentration among the different patients , which might be related to individual breast milk composition and , possibly , to other nutritional or metabolic factors . 
conclusion . 
the extensive peripheral tissue binding and relatively low concentration of colchicine in breast milk suggests that the amount ingested by the infant is small . 
furthermore , based on our clinical experience , nursing appears to be safe for lactating women with fmf who continue to take colchicine . 
the human complement c9 gene : identification of two mutations causing deficiency and revision of the gene structure . 
the ninth component of human complement -lrb- c9 -rrb- is the last of the terminal complement components creating the membrane attack complex . 
c9 is a single-chain serum protein that is encoded by a gene located on chromosome 5p . 
deficiency of terminal complement components is generally associated with recurrent neisseria infections . 
we studied a previously described swiss family with inherited c9 deficiency . 
to identify the genetic basis of c9 deficiency , we developed an approach using exon-specific pcr and direct dna sequencing . 
as a cause of c9 deficiency , we found two different point mutations , both generating _ds stop codons in the coding sequence . 
one mutation , a c to a exchange , was detected in exon _num1 at cdna position _num3 , the other , a c to t exchange , was located in exon _num1 -lrb- cdna position _num3 -rrb- . 
in family studies of three first-degree relatives with heterozygous c9 deficiency , we demonstrated that the two mutations are segregating independently . 
therefore , these mutations are sufficient to explain the complete deficiency of both the probands studied . 
dna sequencing of the exon-intron junctions revealed a number of revisions regarding the boundaries between exons _num1 , _num1 , and _num1 as well as between exons _num2 and _num2 . 
no additional introns were detected in exons _num1 and _num2 . 
furthermore , dna marker studies were conducted using known polymorphisms of the c6 , c7 , and c9 genes , confirming the linkage of the observed c9 mutations with defined haplotypes . . 
molecular heterogeneity of classical and duarte galactosemia : mutation analysis by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis . 
classical galactosemia is caused by one common missense mutation -lrb- q188r -rrb- and by several rare mutations in the galactose-1-phosphate uridyltransferase -lrb- galt -rrb- gene . 
the most common variant of galt , the duarte variant , occurs as two types , duarte-1 -lrb- d-1 -rrb- and duarte-2 -lrb- d-2 -rrb- , both of which carry the sequence change n314d . 
d-1 increases , whereas d-2 decreases galt activity . 
to study the molecular genetics of classical and duarte galactosemia , we analyzed the galt mutations in _num2 families with classical galactosemia , in _num2 families with the d-2 variant and in _num1 individuals carrying the d-1 allele by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis -lrb- dgge -rrb- . 
dgge detected _num2 of the _num2 classical galactosemia alleles . 
q188r accounted for _num2 % , k285n accounted for _num2 % of these alleles . 
eight novel candidate galactosemia mutations were found . 
on all d-2 alleles n314d occurred in cis with two intronic sequence changes , on the d-1 alleles in cis with a neutral mutation in exon _num1 . 
we conclude that the mutations causing galactosemia are highly heterogeneous and that k285n is a second common galactosemia mutation in our population . . 
nonsense mutation in exon _num1 of the proteolipid protein gene -lrb- plp -rrb- in a family with an unusual form of pelizaeus-merzbacher disease . 
we report a g -- > a transition at nucleotide _num3 of the proteolipid protein gene -lrb- plp -rrb- results in a nonsense codon in a family with an unusual form of pelizaeus-merzbacher disease -lrb- pmd -rrb- . 
the mutation , which creates a second alui restriction site , results in a nonsense mutation in plp . 
the clinical picture resembles somewhat that of x-linked spastic paraplegia -lrb- spg -rrb- . 
it differs from this and both the classical and connatal forms of pmd in that it is relatively mild in form , onset is delayed beyond age _num1 years , nystagmus is absent , tremors are prominent , mental retardation is not severe , some patients show dementia or personality disorders , the disease is progressive rather than static in some , and several females show signs of disease . 
the nonsense mutation , which is in exon 3b , should block the synthesis of normal plp but spare dm20 , the isoform whose persistence has been associated with mild forms of plp-associated disease in both humans and mice . . 
the hybrid pax3-fkhr fusion protein of alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma transforms fibroblasts in culture . 
pediatric alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma is characterized by a chromosomal translocation that fuses parts of the pax3 and fkhr genes . 
pax3 codes for a transcriptional regulator that controls developmental programs , and fkhr codes for a forkhead-winged helix protein , also a likely transcription factor . 
the pax3-fkhr fusion product retains the dna binding domains of the pax3 protein and the putative activator domain of the fkhr protein . 
the pax3-fkhr protein has been shown to function as a transcriptional activator . 
using the rcas retroviral vector , we have introduced the pax3-fkhr gene into chicken embryo fibroblasts . 
expression of the pax3-fkhr protein in these cells leads to transformation the cells become enlarged , grow tightly packed and in multiple layers , and acquire the ability for anchorage-independent growth . 
this cellular transformation in vitro will facilitate studies on the mechanism of pax3-fkhr-induced oncogenesis . . 
a clinical overview of wt1 gene mutations . 
mutations in the wt1 gene were anticipated to explain the genetic basis of the childhood kidney cancer , wilms tumour -lrb- wt -rrb- . 
six years on , we review _num3 reports of intragenic wt1 mutations and examine the accompanying clinical phenotypes . 
while only _num1 % of sporadic wilms tumours have intragenic wt1 mutations , > _num2 % of patients with the denys-drash syndrome -lrb- renal nephropathy , gonadal anomaly , predisposition to wt -rrb- carry constitutional intragenic wt1 mutations . 
wt1 mutations have also been reported in juvenile granulosa cell tumour , non-asbestos related mesothelioma , desmoplastic small round cell tumour and , most recently , acute myeloid leukemia . . 
dual roles of atm in the cellular response to radiation and in cell growth control . 
the gene mutated in ataxia-telangiectasia -lrb- _ds -rrb- patients , denoted atm , encodes a putative protein or lipid kinase . 
to elucidate the functions of atm , we disrupted the mouse atm gene through homologous recombination in mice . 
consistent with cellular defects of _ds patients , the atm - / - cells are hypersensitive to gamma-irradiation and defective in cell-cycle arrest following radiation , correlating with a defective up-regulation of _an . 
in addition , atm - / - mouse thymocytes are more resistant to apoptosis induced by gamma-irradiation than normal thymocytes . 
atm - / - fibroblasts are inefficient in g1 to s-phase progression following serum stimulation and senesce after only a few passages in culture . 
they have an increased constitutive level of p21cp1 / waf1 . 
the atm protein is therefore critical both for cellular responses to ionizing radiation and for normal cell-cycle progression . 
atm + / - fibroblasts and thymocytes showed intermediately defective responses to irradiation but no growth defect , suggesting that the increased cancer risk of _ds heterozygotes could be attributable to poor checkpoint function . . 
identification and expression of eight novel mutations among non-jewish patients with canavan disease . 
canavan disease is inherited as an autosomal recessive trait that is caused by the deficiency of aspartoacylase -lrb- aspa -rrb- . 
the majority of patients with canavan disease are from an ashkenazi jewish background . 
mutations in aspa that lead to loss of enzymatic activity have been identified , and e285a and y231x are the two predominant mutations that account for _num2 % of the mutant chromosomes in ashkenazi jewish patients . 
the current study was aimed at finding the molecular basis of canavan disease in _num2 independent patients of non-jewish background . 
eight novel and three previously characterized mutations accounted for _num2 % -lrb- 40 / 50 -rrb- of mutant chromosomes . 
the a305e missense mutation accounted for _num2 % -lrb- 24 / 50 -rrb- of mutant chromosomes in patients of western european descent , while the two predominant jewish mutations each accounted for a single mutant chromosome . 
the eight novel mutations identified included _num1 - and 4-bp deletions -lrb- _num2 deltat and _num3 deltaagaa , respectively -rrb- and i16t , g27r , d114e , g123e , c152y , and r168c missense mutations . 
the homozygous _num2 deltat deletion was identified in the only known patient of african-american origin with canavan disease . 
the heterozygosity for _num3 deltaagaa mutation was identified in three independent patients from england . 
six single-base changes leading to missense mutations were identified in patients from turkey -lrb- d114e , r168c -rrb- , the netherlands -lrb- i16t -rrb- , germany -lrb- g27r -rrb- , ireland -lrb- c152y -rrb- , and canada -lrb- g123e -rrb- . 
a pcr-based protocol is described that was used to introduce mutations in wild-type cdna . 
in vitro expression of mutant cdna clones demonstrated that all of these mutations led to a deficiency of aspa and should therefore result in canavan disease . . 
brca1 mutations in women attending clinics that evaluate the risk of breast cancer . 
background to define the incidence of brca1 mutations among patients seen in clinics that evaluate the risk of breast cancer , we analyzed dna samples from women seen in this setting and constructed probability tables to provide estimates of the likelihood of finding a brca1 mutation in individual families . 
methods clinical information , family histories , and blood for dna analysis were obtained from _num3 women with breast cancer . 
conformation-sensitive gel electrophoresis and dna sequencing were used to identify brca1 mutations . 
results brca1 mutations were identified in _num2 percent of women with a family history of breast cancer . 
only _num1 percent of women from families with a history of breast cancer but not ovarian cancer had brca1 mutations . 
the rates were higher among women from families with a history of both breast and ovarian cancer . 
among family members , an average age of less than _num2 years at the diagnosis of breast cancer , the presence of ovarian cancer , the presence of breast and ovarian cancer in the same woman , and ashkenazi jewish ancestry were all associated with an increased risk of detecting a brca1 mutation . 
no association was found between the presence of bilateral breast cancer or the number of breast cancers in a family and the detection of a brca1 mutation , or between the position of the mutation in the brca1 gene and the presence of ovarian cancer in a family . 
conclusions among women with breast cancer and a family history of the disease , the percentage with brca1 coding-region mutations is less than the _num2 percent predicted by genetic-linkage analysis . 
these results suggest that even in a referral clinic specializing in screening women from high-risk families , the majority of tests for brca1 mutations will be negative and therefore uninformative . . 
the von hippel-lindau tumor suppressor gene product interacts with sp1 to repress vascular endothelial growth factor promoter activity . 
the von hippel-lindau tumor suppressor gene -lrb- vhl -rrb- has a critical role in the pathogenesis of clear-cell renal cell carcinoma -lrb- rcc -rrb- , as vhl mutations have been found in both von hippel-lindau disease-associated and sporadic rccs . 
recent studies suggest that vascular endothelial growth factor -lrb- vegf -rrb- mrna is upregulated in rcc- and von hippel-lindau disease-associated tumors . 
we have therefore assessed the effect of the vhl gene product on vegf expression . 
vegf promoter-luciferase constructs were transiently cotransfected with a wild-type vhl -lrb- wt-vhl -rrb- vector in several cell lines , including _num3 embryonic kidney and rcc cell lines . 
wt-vhl protein inhibited vegf promoter activity in a dose-dependent manner up to _num1 - to 10-fold . 
deletion analysis defined a 144-bp region of the vegf promoter necessary for vhl repression . 
this vhl-responsive element is _ds rich and specifically binds the transcription factor sp1 in crude nuclear extracts . 
in drosophila cells , cotransfected vhl represses sp1-mediated activation but not basal activity of the vegf promoter . 
we next demonstrated in coimmunoprecipitates that vhl and sp1 were part of the same complex and , by using a glutathione-s-transferase-vhl fusion protein and purified sp1 , that vhl and sp1 directly interact . 
furthermore , endogenous vegf mrna levels were suppressed in permanent rcc cell lines expressing wt-vhl , and nuclear run-on studies indicated that vhl regulation of vegf occurs at least partly at the transcriptional level . 
these observations support a new mechanism for vhl-mediated transcriptional repression via a direct inhibitory action on sp1 and suggest that loss of sp1 inhibition may be important in the pathogenesis of von hippel-lindau disease and rcc . . 
germline mutations in the rb1 gene in patients with hereditary retinoblastoma . 
we have analyzed the _num2 exons and the promoter region of the rb1 gene in familial or sporadic bilateral retinoblastoma by using single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis . 
for improvement over previous studies , a new set of primers has been designed , which allow for amplification of the coding and splicing sequences only . 
the positioning of the polymerase chain reaction -lrb- pcr -rrb- primers was such that the resulting pcr products were of different sizes , which enabled us to analyze two different exons simultaneously and still distinguish between the banding profiles for both -lrb- biplex analysis -rrb- . 
by using this approach , we were able to identify mutation in _num2 new patients , but the overall efficiency of the procedure when we used a single-pass regimen was only _num2 % . 
the mutations were small insertions and deletions and point mutations in roughly equal proportions . . 
deletion of small nuclear ribonucleoprotein polypeptide n -lrb- snrpn -rrb- in prader-willi syndrome detected by fluorescence in situ hybridization : two sibs with the typical phenotype without a cytogenetic deletion in chromosome 15q . 
the small nuclear ribonucleoprotein polypeptide n -lrb- snrpn -rrb- gene is regarded as one of the candidates for prader-willi syndrome -lrb- pws -rrb- . 
we describe two sibs with typical pws presenting deletion of snrpn detected by fluorescence in situ hybridization -lrb- fish -rrb- . 
neither a cytogenetically detectable 15q12 deletion nor a deletion for the d15s11 , d15s10 , and gabrb3 cosmid probes were found in either patient . 
this implies a smaller deletion limited to the pws critical region . 
fish with a snrpn probe will permit analysis of pws patients with limited deletions not detectable with other probes . . 
the mouse homolog of the wiskott-aldrich syndrome protein -lrb- wasp -rrb- gene is highly conserved and maps near the scurfy -lrb- sf -rrb- mutation on the x chromosome . 
the mouse wasp gene , the homolog of the gene mutated in wiskott-aldrich syndrome , has been isolated and sequenced . 
the predicted amino acid sequence is _num2 % identical to the human wasp sequence . 
a distinct feature of the mouse gene is an expanded polymorphic _ds trinucleotide repeat that codes for polyglycine and varies from _num2 to _num2 triplets in different mus musculus strains . 
the genomic structure of the mouse wasp gene is expressed as an approximately _num1 . 
4-kb mrna in thymus and spleen . 
chromosomal mapping in an interspecific m. musculus / m . 
spretus backcross placed the wasp locus near the centromere of the mouse x chromosome , inseparable from gata1 , tcfe3 , and scurfy -lrb- sf -rrb- . 
this localization makes wasp a candidate for involvement in scurfy , a t cell-mediated fatal lymphoreticular disease of mice that has previously been proposed as a mouse homolog of wiskott-aldrich syndrome . 
northern analysis of sf tissue samples indicated the presence of wasp mrna in liver and skin , presumably as a consequence of lymphocytic infiltration , but non abnormalities in the amount or size of mrna present . 
an animal model for norrie disease -lrb- nd -rrb- : gene targeting of the mouse nd gene . 
in order to elucidate the cellular and molecular processes which are involved in norrie disease -lrb- nd -rrb- , we have used gene targeting technology to generate nd mutant mice . 
the murine homologue of the nd gene was cloned and shown to encode a polypeptide that shares _num2 % of the amino acid sequence with its human counterpart . 
rna in situ hybridization revealed expression in retina , brain and the olfactory bulb and epithelium of _num1 week old mice . 
hemizygous mice carrying a replacement mutation in exon _num1 of the nd gene developed retrolental structures in the vitreous body and showed an overall disorganization of the retinal ganglion cell layer . 
the outer plexiform layer disappears occasionally , resulting in a juxtaposed inner and outer nuclear layer . 
at the same regions , the outer segments of the photoreceptor cell layer are no longer present . 
these ocular findings are consistent with observations in nd patients and the generated mouse line provides a faithful model for study of early pathogenic events in this severe x-linked recessive neurological disorder . . 
phenotypic characterization of individuals with 30-40 _ds repeats in the huntington disease -lrb- hd -rrb- gene reveals hd cases with _num2 repeats and apparently normal elderly individuals with 36-39 repeats . 
abnormal _ds expansions in the it-15 gene are associated with huntington disease -lrb- hd -rrb- . 
in the diagnostic setting it is necessary to define the limits of the _ds size ranges on normal and hd associated chromosomes . 
most large analyses that defined the limits of the normal and pathological size ranges employed pcr assays , which included the _ds repeats and a _ds repeat tract that was thought to be invariant . 
many of these experiments found an overlap between the normal and disease size ranges . 
subsequent findings that the _ds repeats vary by _num1 trinucleotide lengths suggested that the limits of the normal and disease size ranges should be reevaluated with assays that exclude the _ds polymorphism . 
since patients with between _num2 and _num2 repeats are rare , a consortium was assembled to collect such individuals . 
all _num3 samples were reanalyzed in cambridge by using assays specific for the _ds repeats . 
we have optimized methods for reliable sizing of _ds repeats and show cases that demonstrate the dangers of using pcr assays that include both the _ds and _ds polymorphisms . 
seven hd patients had _num2 repeats , which confirms that this allele is associated with disease . 
individuals without apparent symptoms or signs of hd were found at _num2 repeats -lrb- aged _num2 , _num2 , _num2 , and _num2 years -rrb- , _num2 repeats -lrb- aged _num2 years -rrb- , _num2 repeats -lrb- aged _num2 and _num2 years -rrb- , and _num2 repeats -lrb- aged _num2 , _num2 , and _num2 years -rrb- . 
the detailed case histories of an exceptional case from this series will be presented a 95-year-old man with _num2 repeats who did not have classical features of hd . 
the apparently healthy survival into old age of some individuals with 36-39 repeats suggests that the hd mutation may not always be fully penetrant . . 
hprt-aprt-deficient mice are not a model for lesch-nyhan syndrome . 
complete hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyl-transferase -lrb- hprt -rrb- deficiency in humans results in the lesch-nyhan syndrome which is characterized , among other features , by compulsive self-injurious behavior . 
hprt-deficient mice generated using mouse embryonic stem cells exhibit none of the behavioral symptoms associated with the lesch-nyhan syndrome . 
administration of drugs that inhibit adenine phosphoribosyltransferase -lrb- aprt -rrb- in hprt-deficient mice has produced the suggestion that deficiency of aprt in combination with hprt-deficiency in mice may lead to self-mutilation behavior -lsb- c. l. wu and d. w. melton -lrb- _num4 -rrb- nature genet . 
_num1 , 235-240 -rsb- . 
to test this proposition , we bred hprt-aprt-deficient mice . 
although the doubly-deficient mice excrete adenine and its highly insoluble derivative , _num1 , 8-dihydroxyadenine , which are also associated with human aprt deficiency , additional abnormalities or any self-injurious behavior were not detected . 
thus , aprt-hprt-deficient mice , which are devoid of any purine salvage pathways , show no novel phenotype and are not a model for the behavioral abnormalities associated with the lesch-nyhan syndrome as previously suggested mice lacking the myotonic dystrophy protein kinase develop a late onset progressive myopathy . 
myotonic dystrophy -lrb- dm -rrb- is an autosomal dominant disorder resulting from the expansion of a _ds repeat in the _num1 untranslated region of a putative protein kinase -lrb- dmpk -rrb- . 
to elucidate the role of dmpk in dm pathogenesis we have developed dmpk deficient -lrb- dmpk - / - -rrb- mice . 
dmpk - / - mice develop a late-onset , progressive skeletal myopathy that shares some pathological features with dm . 
muscles from mature mice show variation in fibre size , increased fibre degeneration and fibrosis . 
adult dmpk - / - mice show ultrastructural changes in muscle and a _num2 % decrease in force generation compared to young mice . 
our results indicate that dmpk may be necessary for the maintenance of skeletal muscle structure and function and suggest that a decrease in dmpk levels may contribute to dm pathology . . 
rapid detection of regionally clustered germ-line brca1 mutations by multiplex heteroduplex analysis . 
ukcccr familial ovarian cancer study group . 
germ-line mutations of the brca1 gene are responsible for a substantial proportion of families with multiple cases of early-onset breast and / or ovarian cancer . 
since the isolation of brca1 last year , > _num2 distinct mutations scattered throughout the coding region have been detected , making analysis of the gene time consuming and technically challenging . 
we have developed a multiplex heteroduplex analysis that is designed to analyze one-quarter of the coding sequence in a single-step screening procedure and that will detect approximately _num2 % of all brca1 mutations so far reported in breast / ovarian cancer families . 
we have used this technique to analyze brca1 in _num3 families with a history of breast and / or ovarian cancer and identified _num2 distinct mutations in _num2 families . . 
lpp , the preferred fusion partner gene of hmgic in lipomas , is a novel member of the lim protein gene family . 
a major cytogenetic subgroup of lipomas is characterized by recurrent chromosome aberrations , mainly translocations , that involve chromosome segment 12q13-q15 . 
multiple chromosomes have been found as the translocation partners of chromosome _num2 but 3q27-q28 is preferentially involved . 
in previous studies , it has been shown that the high mobility group -lrb- hmg -rrb- protein gene hmgic at 12q15 is consistently rearranged as a consequence of these translocations . 
here , we report the identification and characterization of the chromosome 3-derived translocation partner gene , which we have designated lpp -lrb- lipoma preferred partner gene -rrb- . 
using 3-race analysis of hmgic fusion transcripts in lipoma cell line li-501 / sv40 , ectopic genetic sequences were obtained , which by cash -lrb- chromosome assignment using somatic cell hybrids -rrb- and fish -lrb- fluorescence in situ hybridization -rrb- analysis were found to originate from chromosome segment 3q27-q28 . 
in northern blot analysis , an mrna of over _num2 kb was detected by these ectopic sequences in a variety of human tissues but not in brain and peripheral blood leukocytes . 
upon partial cdna cloning , features of the genetic organization of lpp were established . 
the gene was found to span a genomic region of over _num3 kb . 
nucleotide sequence analysis of a composite cdna of lpp revealed an open reading frame of _num4 nucleotides encoding a proline-rich protein containing a leucine-zipper motif in its amino-terminal region and three lim domains in its carboxy-terminal region . 
the lpp-encoded protein should be classified as a novel member of the group _num1 proteins of the lim protein gene family . 
using reverse transcriptase combined with polymerase chain reactions in the analysis of a number of lipoma cell lines and primary lipomas , it appeared that lpp is frequently rearranged also in cases without a cytogenetically detectable involvement of 3q27-q28 . 
two alternative hmgic / lpp hybrid transcripts have been detected ; the difference between them is mainly the presence of either two or three lim domains in the predicted hmgi-c / lpp fusion proteins . . 
exon-intron structure of the human neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor alpha _num1 subunit -lrb- chrna4 -rrb- . 
the human neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor alpha _num1 subunit gene -lrb- chrna4 -rrb- is located in the candidate region for three different phenotypes benign familial neonatal convulsions , autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy , and low-voltage eeg . 
recently , a missense mutation in transmembrane domain _num1 of chrna4 was found to be associated with autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy in one extended pedigree . 
we have determined the genomic organization of chrna4 , which consists of six exons distributed over approximately _num2 kb of genomic dna . 
the nucleotide sequence obtained from the genomic regions adjacent to the exon boundaries enabled us to develop a set of primer pairs for pcr amplification of the complete coding region . 
the sequence analysis provides the basis for a comprehensive mutation screening of chrna4 in the above-mentioned phenotypes and possibly in other types of idiopathic epilepsies . . 
a novel homeodomain-encoding gene is associated with a large cpg island interrupted by the myotonic dystrophy unstable -lrb- _ds -rrb- n repeat . 
myotonic dystrophy -lrb- dm -rrb- is associated with a -lrb- _ds -rrb- n trinucleotide repeat expansion in the 3-untranslated region of a protein kinase-encoding gene , dmpk , which maps to chromosome 19q13 . 
_num1 . 
characterisation of the expression of this gene in patient tissues has thus far generated conflicting data on alterations in the steady state levels of dmpk mrna , and on the final dmpk protein levels in the presence of the expansion . 
the dm region of chromosome _num2 is gene rich , and it is possible that the repeat expansion may lead to dysfunction of a number of transcription units in the vicinity , perhaps as a consequence of chromatin disruption . 
we have searched for genes associated with a cpg island at the _num1 end of dmpk . 
sequencing of this region shows that the island extends over _num1 . 
_num1 kb and is interrupted by the -lrb- _ds -rrb- n repeat . 
comparison of genomic sequences downstream -lrb- centromeric -rrb- of the repeat in human and mouse identified regions of significant homology . 
these correspond to exons of a gene predicted to encode a homeodomain protein . 
rt-pcr analysis shows that this gene , which we have called dm locus-associated homeodomain protein -lrb- dmahp -rrb- , is expressed in a number of human tissues , including skeletal muscle , heart and brain . 
missense mutations in the fas gene resulting in autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome : a molecular and immunological analysis . 
programmed cell death -lrb- or apoptosis -rrb- is a physiological process essential to the normal development and homeostatic maintenance of the immune system . 
the fas / apo -1 receptor plays a crucial role in the regulation of apoptosis , as demonstrated by lymphoproliferation in mrl-lpr / lpr mice and by the recently described autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome -lrb- alps -rrb- in humans , both of which are due to mutations in the fas gene . 
we describe a novel family with alps in which three affected siblings carry two distinct missense mutations on both the fas gene alleles and show lack of fas-induced apoptosis . 
the children share common clinical features including splenomegaly and lymphadenopathy , but only one developed severe autoimmune manifestations . 
in all three siblings , we demonstrated the presence of anergic cd3 + cd4-cd8 - -lrb- double negative , -lsb- dn -rsb- -rrb- t cells ; moreover , a chronic lymphocyte activation was found , as demonstrated by the presence of high levels of hla-dr expression on peripheral cd3 + cells and by the presence of high levels of serum activation markers such as soluble interleukin-2 receptor -lrb- sll-2r -rrb- and soluble cd30 -lrb- scd30 -rrb- . . 
common brca1 variants and susceptibility to breast and ovarian cancer in the general population . 
most multiple case families of young onset breast cancer and ovarian cancer are thought to be due to highly penetrant mutations in the predisposing genes brca1 and brca2 . 
however , these mutations are uncommon in the population and they probably account for only a few percent of all breast cancer incidence . 
a much larger fraction of breast cancer might , in principle , be due to common variants which confer more modest individual risks . 
there are several common polymorphisms in the brca1 gene which generate amino acid substitutions . 
we have examined the frequency of four of these polymorphisms gln356arg , pro871leu , glu1038gly and ser1613gly in large series of breast and ovarian cancer cases and matched controls . 
due to strong linkage disequilibrium , these four sites generate only three haplotypes with a frequency > _num1 . 
_num1 % . 
the most common haplotypes , defined by the alleles gln356pro871glu1038ser1613 and gln356leu871gly1038gly1613 , have frequencies of _num1 . 
_num2 and _num1 . 
_num2 respectively , and these frequencies do not differ significantly between patient and control groups . 
thus the most common polymorphisms of the brca1 gene do not make a significant contribution to breast or ovarian cancer risk . 
however , our data suggest that the arg356 allele may have a different genotype distribution in breast cancer patients from that in controls -lrb- arg356 homozygotes are more frequent in the control groups , p = _num1 . 
_num2 -rrb- , indicating that it may be protective against breast cancer . 
if this finding can be confirmed , it may provide an insight into the structural features of the brca1 protein that are important for its function . 
mutation of the vhl gene is associated exclusively with the development of non-papillary renal cell carcinomas . 
to define the possible role of the vhl gene in the development of sporadic renal cell carcinomas , _num2 different parenchymal tumours of the kidney have been investigated for mutation of the vhl gene by single strand conformation polymorphism -lrb- sscp -rrb- and / or heteroduplex -lrb- hd -rrb- techniques . 
chromosome 3p deletion was detected in _num2 per cent of non-papillary renal cell carcinomas and in _num2 per cent of chromophobe renal cell carcinomas . 
in _num2 of the _num2 non-papillary renal cell carcinomas , abnormally migrating dna bands were detected by sscp and / or hd analysis . 
no mobility shift was seen in any of the _num2 chromophobe renal cell carcinomas . 
in addition , _num2 papillary renal cell tumours and ten renal oncocytomas , which are characterized by genetic changes other than loss of chromosome 3p sequences , were analysed for mutation of the vhl gene . 
none of these tumours showed abnormal migration patterns . 
the results indicate that mutation of the vhl gene is associated exclusively with the development of non-papillary renal cell carcinoma . . 
comparative genome mapping of the ataxia-telangiectasia region in mouse , rat , and syrian hamster . 
chromosomal locations of the atm -lrb- ataxia-telangiectasia -lrb- _ds -rrb- - mutated -rrb- and acat1 -lrb- mitochondrial acetoacetyl-coa thiolase -rrb- genes in mouse , rat , and syrian hamster were determined by direct r-banding fish . 
both genes were colocalized to the c-d band of mouse chromosome _num1 , the proximal end of _an . 
_num1 of rat chromosome _num1 , and qa4-qa5 of syrian hamster chromosome _num2 . 
the regions in the mouse and rat were homologous to human chromosome 11q . 
fine genetic linkage mapping of the mouse _ds region was performed using the interspecific backcross mice . 
atm , acat1 , and npat , which is a new gene isolated from the _ds region , and _num2 flanking microsatellite dna markers were examined . 
no recombinations were found among the atm , npat , acat1 , and d9mit6 loci , and these loci were mapped _num1 . 
_num1 cm distal to d9mit99 and _num1 . 
_num1 cm proximal to d9mit102 . 
comparison of the linkage map of mouse chromosome _num1 -lrb- mmu9 -rrb- and that of human chromosome _num2 -lrb- hsa11 -rrb- indicates that there is a chromosomal rearrangement due to an inversion between ets1 and atm-npat-acat1 and that the inversion of mmu9 originated from the chromosomal breakage at the boundary between gria4 and atm-npat-acat1 on hsa11 . 
this type of inversion appeared to be conserved in the three rodent species , mouse , rat , and syrian hamster , using additional comparative mapping data with the rck gene tumor suppression and apoptosis of human prostate carcinoma mediated by a genetic locus within human chromosome 10pter-q11 . 
prostate cancer is the second leading cause of male cancer deaths in the united states . 
yet , despite a large international effort , little is known about the molecular mechanisms that underlie this devastating disease . 
prostate secretory epithelial cells and androgen-dependent prostate carcinomas undergo apoptosis in response to androgen deprivation and , furthermore , most prostate carcinomas become androgen independent and refractory to further therapeutic manipulations during disease progression . 
definition of the genetic events that trigger apoptosis in the prostate could provide important insights into critical pathways in normal development as well as elucidate the perturbations of those key pathways in neoplastic transformation . 
we report the functional definition of a novel genetic locus within human chromosome 10pter-q11 that mediates both in vivo tumor suppression and in vitro apoptosis of prostatic adenocarcinoma cells . 
a defined fragment of human chromosome _num2 was transferred via microcell fusion into a prostate adenocarcinoma cell line . 
microcell hybrids containing only the region 10pter-q11 were suppressed for tumorigenicity following injection of microcell hybrids into nude mice . 
furthermore , the complemented hybrids undergo programmed cell death in vitro via a mechanism that does not require nuclear localization of _an . 
these data functionally define a novel genetic locus , designated pac1 , for prostate adenocarcinoma _num1 , involved in tumor suppression of human prostate carcinoma and furthermore strongly suggest that the cell death pathway can be functionally restored in prostatic adenocarcinoma . . 
phenotypic and genotypic overlap between atelosteogenesis type _num1 and diastrophic dysplasia . 
mutations in the diastrophic dysplasia sulfate transporter gene dtdst have been associated with a family of chondrodysplasias that comprises , in order of increasing severity , diastrophic dysplasia -lrb- dtd -rrb- , atelosteogenesis type _num1 -lrb- ao2 -rrb- , and achondrogenesis type 1b -lrb- acg1b -rrb- . 
to learn more about the molecular basis of dtdst chondrodysplasias and about genotype-phenotype correlations , we studied fibroblast cultures of three new patients one with ao-2 , one with dtd , and one with an intermediate phenotype -lrb- ao2 / dtd -rrb- . 
reduced incorporation of inorganic sulfate into macromolecules was found in all three . 
each of the three patients was found to be heterozygous for a c862t transition predicting a r279w substitution in the third extracellular loop of dtdst . 
in two patients -lrb- dtd and ao2 / dtd -rrb- , no other structural mutation was found , but polymerase chain reaction amplification and single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis of fibroblast cdna showed reduced mrna levels of the wild-type dtdst allele these two patients may be compound heterozygotes for the '' finnish '' mutation -lrb- as yet uncharacterized at the dna level -rrb- , which causes reduced expression of dtdst . 
the third patient -lrb- with ao2 -rrb- had the r279w mutation compounded with a novel mutation , the deletion of cytosine _num3 -lrb- delta _an -rrb- , predicting a frameshift with premature termination . 
also the delta _an allele was underrepresented in the cdna , in accordance with previous observations that premature stop codons reduce mrna levels . 
the presence of the dtdst r279w mutation in a total of _num2 patients with ao2 or dtd emphasizes the overlap between these conditions . 
this mutation has not been found so far in _num1 analyzed acg1b patients , suggesting that it allows some residual activity of the sulfate transporter . . 
cloning of the homogentisate 1,2-dioxygenase gene , the key enzyme of alkaptonuria in mouse . 
we determined _num2 amino acid residues from five peptides from the homogeneous monomer of homogentisate _num1 , 2-dioxygenase -lrb- hgo ; e. c. _num1 . 
_num2 . 
_num2 . 
_num2 -rrb- of mouse liver . 
after digestion with trypsin , peptides were separated by reversed phase chromatography and amino acid sequenced . 
the deduced codon sequence of three peptides was used to derive degenerated oligomeres . 
by combining these oligos , we were able to amplify fragments from _num3 to _num3 bases -lrb- b -rrb- from mouse liver cdna by polymerase chain reaction after reverse transcription -lrb- rt-pcr -rrb- . 
a fragment of _num3 b was cloned and used as a probe to screen a mouse liver cdna library . 
one clone from this library contained the complete cdna-insert for hgo as determined by sequencing . 
the cdna encodes for a protein of _num2 kda , as predicted . 
the cdna of mouse hgo has an overall identity of _num2 % to the corresponding gene hmga from aspergillus . 
sequence similarities to human expressed sequence tags -lrb- est -rrb- clones ranged from _num2 % to _num2 % . 
the positions of _num3 conserved amino acids could be determined by multiple sequence alignment . 
we identified one first intron of _num3 b in the mouse gene . 
the gene for hgo seems to be expressed in various tissues , as shown by rt-pcr on different cdnas . 
fish experiments with the whole murine cdna as probe clearly revealed signals at the human chromosomal band 3q13 . 
3-q21 . 
this corresponds well to the previous assignment of the locus for the human alkaptonuria gene -lrb- aku -rrb- to the same chromosomal region by multipoint linkage analysis . 
we therefore conclude that the hgo cdna encodes the gene responsible for alkaptonuria . 
abnormal myotonic dystrophy protein kinase levels produce only mild myopathy in mice . 
myotonic dystrophy -lrb- dm -rrb- is commonly associated with _ds repeat expansions within the gene for dm-protein kinase -lrb- dmpk -rrb- . 
the effect of altered expression levels of dmpk , which is ubiquitously expressed in all muscle cell lineages during development , was examined by disrupting the endogenous dmpk gene and overexpressing a normal human dmpk transgene in mice . 
nullizygous -lrb- - / - -rrb- mice showed only inconsistent and minor size changes in head and neck muscle fibres at older age , animals with the highest dmpk transgene expression showed hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and enhanced neonatal mortality . 
however , both models lack other frequent dm symptoms including the fibre-type dependent atrophy , myotonia , cataract and male-infertility . 
these results strengthen the contention that simple loss - or gain-of-expression of dmpk is not the only crucial requirement for development of the disease . . 
molecular bases of combined subtotal deficiencies of c6 and c7 : their effects in combination with other c6 and c7 deficiencies . 
combined subtotal deficiency of c6 and c7 , in which both proteins are expressed at very low levels , has been observed in homozygous form in two families . 
a defect at the _num1 splice donor site of intron _num2 of the c6 gene explains the low molecular weight of the c6 protein and is probably responsible for its low expressed concentration . 
the c7 defect is more enigmatic the protein is of normal molecular weight , low circulating concentration , and altered isoelectric point . 
an arg > ser codon substitution in exon _num2 is the only molecular alteration within the mature c7 protein . 
these defects are associated with a characteristic set of polymorphic dna markers in the c6 / c7 region , forming a distinct haplotype . 
the haplotype has been found in combination with a number of other haplotypes containing defective genes that lead either to c6 or c7 deficiency , but with different consequences . 
where it is combined with a c6-deficient gene , the serum c7 levels can be surprisingly high , possibly because there is no c6 generating _an to consume the c7 . 
in contrast , where the c7 genes are both defective -lrb- but still partially functional -rrb- , there may be a profound deficit of circulating c7 because there is ample c6 to produce _an and consume the already small amount of c7 . 
each molecular defect has also been found in isolation and has the expected effect . . 
constitutively methylated cpg dinucleotides as mutation hot spots in the retinoblastoma gene -lrb- rb1 -rrb- . 
a wide spectrum of mutations , ranging from point mutations to large deletions , have been described in the retinoblastoma gene -lrb- rb1 -rrb- . 
mutations have been found throughout the gene ; however , these genetic alterations do not appear to be homogeneously distributed . 
in particular , a significant proportion of disease-causing mutations results in the premature termination of protein synthesis , and the majority of these mutations occur as c -- > t transitions at cpg dinucleotides -lrb- cpgs -rrb- . 
such recurrent cpg mutations , including those found in rb1 , are likely the result of the deamination of 5-methylcytosine within these cpgs . 
in the present study , we used the sodiumbisulfite conversion method to detect cytosine methylation in representative exons of rb1 . 
we analyzed dna from a variety of tissues and specifically targeted _ds codons in rb1 , where recurrent premature termination mutations have been reported . 
we found that dna methylation within rb1 exons _num1 , _num2 , _num2 , and _num2 appeared to be restricted to cpgs , including six _ds codons . 
other codons containing methylated cytosines have not been reported to be mutated . 
therefore , disease-causing mutations at cpgs in rb1 appear to be determined by several factors , including the constitutive presence of dna methylation at cytosines within cpgs , the specific codon within which the methylated cytosine is located , and the particular region of the gene within which that codon resides . . 
the tsg101 tumor susceptibility gene is located in chromosome _num2 band _an and is mutated in human breast cancer . 
recent work has identified a mouse gene -lrb- tsg101 -rrb- whose inactivation in fibroblasts results in cellular transformation and the ability to produce metastatic tumors in nude mice . 
here , we report that the human homolog , tsg101 , which we isolated and mapped to chromosome _num2 , bands _num2 . 
1-15 1-15 . 
_num1 , a region proposed to contain tumor suppressor gene -lrb- s -rrb- , is mutated at high frequency in human breast cancer . 
in _num1 of _num2 uncultured primary human breast carcinomas , intragenic deletions were shown in tsg101 genomic dna and transcripts by gel and sequence analysis , and mutations affecting two tsg101 alleles were identified in four of these cancers . 
no tsg101 defects were found in matched normal breast tissue from the breast cancer patients . 
these findings strongly implicate tsg101 mutations in human breast cancer the emery-dreifuss muscular dystrophy protein , emerin , is a nuclear membrane protein . 
a large fragment of emerin cdna was prepared by pcr and expressed as a recombinant protein in escherichia coli . 
using this as immunogen , we prepared a panel of _num2 monoclonal antibodies which recognise at least four different epitopes on emerin in order to ensure that emerin can be distinguished from non-specific cross-reacting proteins . 
all the mabs recognised a _num2 kda protein in all tissues tested , though minor emerin-related bands were also detected in some tissues . 
immunofluorescence microscopy showed that emerin is located at the nuclear rim in all tissues examined . 
a muscle biopsy from an emery-dreifuss muscular dystrophy -lrb- emdm -rrb- patient showed complete absence of emerin by both western blotting and immunohistochemistry , suggesting a simple diagnostic antibody test for edmd families . 
biochemical fractionation of brain and liver tissues showed that emerin was present in nuclei purified by centrifugation through _num2 % sucrose and was absent from soluble fractions -lrb- post-100 , _num3 g -rrb- . 
from these results , together with sequence and structural homologies between emerin , thymopoietins and the nuclear lamina-associated protein , lap2 , we suggest that emerin will prove to be one member of a family of inner nuclear membrane proteins . . 
influence of pax6 gene dosage on development : overexpression causes severe eye abnormalities . 
aniridia in man and small eye in mice are semidominant developmental disorders caused by mutations within the paired box gene pax6 . 
whereas heterozygotes suffer from iris hypoplasia , homozygous mice lack eyes and nasal cavities and exhibit brain abnormalities . 
to investigate the role of gene dosage in more detail , we have generated yeast artificial chromosome transgenic mice carrying the human pax6 locus . 
when crossed onto the small eye background , the transgene rescues the mutant phenotype . 
strikingly , mice carrying multiple copies on a wild-type background show specific developmental abnormalities of the eye , but not of other tissues expressing the gene . 
thus , at least five different eye phenotypes are associated with changes in pax6 expression . 
we provide evidence that not only reduced , but also increased levels of transcriptional regulators can cause developmental defects . . 
founding brca1 mutations in hereditary breast and ovarian cancer in southern sweden . 
nine different germ-line mutations in the brca1 breast and ovarian cancer susceptibility gene were identified in _num2 of _num2 kindreds from southern sweden , by use of sscp and heteroduplex analysis of all exons and flanking intron region and by a protein-truncation test for exon _num2 , followed by direct sequencing . 
all but one of the mutations are predicted to give rise to premature translation termination and include seven frameshift insertions or deletions , a nonsense mutation , and a splice acceptor site mutation . 
the remaining mutation is a missense mutation -lrb- cys61gly -rrb- in the zinc-binding motif . 
four novel swedish founding mutations were identified the nucleotide _num4 deletion a was found in five families , the c _num4 t nonsense mutation in three families , the _num4 insertion _ds in three families , and the nucleotide _num4 deletion _num2 in two families . 
analysis of the intragenic polymorphism d17s855 supports common origins of the mutations . 
eleven of the _num2 kindreds manifesting brca1 mutations were breast-ovarian cancer families , several of them with a predominant ovarian cancer phenotype . 
the set of _num2 families in which no brca1 alterations were detected included _num1 breast-ovarian cancer kindred manifesting clear linkage to the brca1 region and loss of the wild-type chromosome in associated tumors . 
other tumor types found in brca1 mutation / haplotype carriers included prostatic , pancreas , skin , and lung cancer , a malignant melanoma , an oligodendroglioma , and a carcinosarcoma . 
in all , _num2 of _num2 kindreds manifesting brca1 mutation or linkage contained ovarian cancer , as compared with only _num1 of the remaining _num2 families -lrb- p < . 
_num3 -rrb- . 
the present study confirms the involvement of brca1 in disease predisposition for a subset of hereditary breast cancer families often characterized by ovarian cancers . 
the dcc protein and prognosis in colorectal cancer . 
background allelic loss of chromosome 18q predicts a poor outcome in patients with stage ii colorectal cancer . 
although the specific gene inactivated by this allelic loss has not been elucidated , the dcc -lrb- deleted in colorectal cancer -rrb- gene is a candidate . 
we investigated whether the expression of the dcc protein in tumor cells is a prognostic marker in colorectal carcinoma . 
methods the expression of dcc was evaluated immunohistochemically in _num3 paraffin-embedded samples from patients with curatively resected stage ii and iii colorectal carcinomas . 
the cox proportional-hazards model was used to adjust for covariates including age , sex , tumor site , degree of tumor differentiation , and use of adjuvant therapy . 
results the expression of dcc was a strong positive predictive factor for survival in both stage ii and stage iii colorectal carcinomas . 
in patients with stage ii disease whose tumors expressed dcc , the five-year survival rate was _num2 . 
_num1 percent , whereas in patients with dcc-negative tumors , the survival rate was _num2 . 
_num1 percent -lrb- p < _num1 . 
_num3 -rrb- . 
in patients with stage iii disease , the respective survival rates were _num2 . 
_num1 percent and _num2 . 
_num1 percent -lrb- p = _num1 . 
_num2 -rrb- . 
conclusions dcc is a prognostic marker in patients with stage ii or stage iii colorectal cancer . 
in stage ii colorectal carcinomas , the absence of dcc identifies a subgroup of patients with lesions that behave like stage iii cancers . 
these findings may thus have therapeutic implications in this group of patients gene therapy for phenylketonuria . 
classical phenylketonuria -lrb- pku -rrb- is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by a deficiency of hepatic phenylalanine hydroxylase -lrb- pah -rrb- . 
limitations of the current dietary treatment for pku have led to the development of potential treatments based on somatic gene transfer . 
three different vector systems have been examined . 
vectors derived from a recombinant retrovirus or a dna / protein complex can efficiently transduce the pah cdna into pah-deficient hepatocytes in vitro , but the application of these vector systems is presently limited by their low transduction efficiency in vivo . 
in contrast , a vector derived from a recombinant adenovirus can restore _num2 % -80 % of normal hepatic pah activity into pah-deficient mice , which completely normalizes serum phenylalanine levels . 
this treatment is transient and can not be effectively re-administered due to the presence of neutralizing antibodies directed against the recombinant adenoviral vector . 
however , these findings suggest that pku can be completely corrected by somatic gene therapy , and provide some direction for the future development of adenoviral vectors . . 
identification of a ring protein that can interact in vivo with the brca1 gene product . 
the hereditary breast and ovarian cancer gene , brca1 , encodes a large polypeptide that contains the cysteine-rich ring motif , a zinc-binding domain found in a variety of regulatory proteins . 
here we describe a novel protein that interacts in vivo with the n-terminal region of brca1 . 
this brca1-associated ring domain -lrb- bard1 -rrb- protein contains an n-terminal ring motif , three tandem ankyrin repeats , and a c-terminal sequence with significant homology to the phylogenetically conserved brct domains that lie near the c terminus of brca1 . 
the bard1 / brca1 interaction is disrupted by brca1 missense mutations that segregate with breast cancer susceptibility , indicating that bard1 may be involved in mediating tumour suppression by brca1 . . 
wiskott-aldrich syndrome : no strict genotype-phenotype correlations but clustering of missense mutations in the amino-terminal part of the wasp gene product . 
the wiskott-aldrich syndrome protein -lrb- wasp -rrb- gene was found to be mutated in patients presenting with was and in patients showing x-linked thrombocytopenia . 
mutation analysis in _num2 families of german , swiss and turkish descent by single-strand conformation polymorphism and sequencing resulted in the detection of seven novel and _num2 known mutations . 
a striking clustering of missense mutations in the first four exons contrasted with a random distribution of nonsense mutations . 
more than _num2 % of all known missense mutations were localized in the amino-terminal stretch of the wasp gene product ; this region contained a mutational hot spot at codon _num2 . 
no genotype-phenotype correlation emerged after a comparison of the identified mutations with the resulting clinical picture for a classical was phenotype . 
a substitution at codon _num2 resulted in an extremely variable expression of the disease in a large swiss family . 
an extended homology search revealed a distant relationship of this stretch to the vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein -lrb- vasp -rrb- , which is involved in the maintenance of cyto-architecture by interacting with actin-like filaments . . 
autosomal dominant primary hyperparathyroidism and jaw tumor syndrome associated with renal hamartomas and cystic kidney disease : linkage to 1q21-q32 and loss of the wild type allele in renal hamartomas . 
hereditary hyperparathyroidism-jaw tumor syndrome -lrb- hpt-jt -rrb- is an autosomal dominant disease -lrb- omim _num6 -rrb- that has recently been mapped to chromosomal region 1q21-q32 -lrb- hrpt2 -rrb- . 
here we report two families with hpt-jt syndrome in which adult renal hamartomas or cystic kidney disease were prominent associated features , possibly representing a new phenotypic variant of the hpt-jt syndrome . 
in the first family , renal lesions were present in five out of six affected individuals , whereas hpt and jt were seen in four and two cases , respectively . 
in the second family , jt was found in three of the five affected individuals and two affected members also exhibited polycystic kidney disease . 
the possibility of the latter cosegregating as a separate autosomal dominant gene can not be ruled out . 
a sex-dependent penetrance of primary hpt , resulting in predominantly male-affected cases was evident in the two families . 
twenty microsatellite markers in the hrpt2 region were typed , in addition to markers in the multiple endocrine neoplasia -lrb- men -rrb- types _num1 and _num2 regions at 11q13 and 10q11 . 
the disease in these two kindreds was linked to five markers in the 1q21-q32 region -lrb- logarithm-of-odds scores _num1 . 
2-4 2-4 . 
_num1 -rrb- , whereas linkage to the men1 and men2 regions was excluded . 
meiotic recombinations detected in affected individuals placed the locus telomeric of d1s215 , thus narrowing the hrpt2 region from > _num2 to approximately _num2 centimorgans . 
loss of heterozygosity was studied in seven renal hamartomas from two affected individuals in the first family , as well as in a jaw tumor and a parathyroid tumor from the second family . 
all renal hamartomas showed loss of heterozygosity at the 1q21-q32 region . 
the losses invariably involved the wild type allele derived from the unaffected parent , suggesting the inactivation of a tumor suppressor gene in this region heterodimer formation and activity in the human enzyme galactose-1-phosphate uridylyltransferase . 
one of the fundamental questions concerning expression and function of dimeric enzymes involves the impact of naturally occurring mutations on subunit assembly and heterodimer activity . 
this question is of particular interest for the human enzyme galactose-l-phosphate uridylyl-transferase -lrb- galt -rrb- , impairment of which results in the inherited metabolic disorder galactosemia , because many if not most patients studied to date are compound heterozygotes rather than true molecular homozygotes . 
furthermore , the broad range of phenotypic severity observed in these patients raises the possibility that allelic combination , not just allelic constitution , may play some role in determining outcome . 
in the work described herein , we have selected two distinct naturally occurring null mutations of galt , q188r and r333w , and asked the questions -lrb- i -rrb- what are the impacts of these mutations on subunit assembly , and -lrb- ii -rrb- if heterodimers do form , are they active ? 
to answer these questions , we have established a yeast system for the coexpression of epitope-tagged alleles of human galt and investigated both the extent of specific galt subunit interactions and the activity of defined heterodimer pools . 
we have found that both homodimers and heterodimers do form involving each of the mutant subunits tested and that both heterodimer pools retain substantial enzymatic activity . 
these results are significant not only in terms of their implications for furthering our understanding of galactosemia and galt holoenzyme structure-function relationships but also because the system described may serve as a model for similar studies of other complexes composed of multiple subunits . . 
brca1 r841w : a strong candidate for a common mutation with moderate phenotype . 
brca1 mutations cause increased risk for breast and ovarian cancer , frequently of early onset . 
many different mutations occur in brca1 , including several examples of recurrent mutations , each of which accounts for a significant number of families with heritable cancer predisposition . 
these common mutations have an etiological role in many breast and ovarian cancer cases and provide the opportunity to examine genotype-phenotype correlations and genotype-environment interactions in individuals with the identical brca1 lesion . 
we report a novel missense change in brca1 , _num4 c -- > t -lrb- r841w -rrb- , found in _num1 cases from a subject group of _num3 breast and _num2 ovarian cancer cases from orange county , _ds . 
these are consecutive , population-based cases not selected for age or family history . 
in all three cases , there is a strong family history of breast , ovarian , or other cancers possibly related to a brca1 defect and family members showed a high concordance of cancer incidence with the presence of r841w . 
the age of cancer onset was not always distinct from typical sporadic cases . 
testing of a sample of _num3 unrelated individuals to examine the hypothesis that r841w might be a rare polymorphism detected one additional instance in a woman with breast cancer diagnosed at age _num2 years , and cancer in one parent . 
r841w is likely to be an etiologically significant lesion with involvement in close to _num1 % -lrb- _num2 % confidence interval of 0-1 . 
_num1 % -rrb- of all breast and ovarian cancers in this population . 
independent origin of single and double mutations in the human glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase gene . 
the vast majority of both polymorphic and sporadic g6pd variants are due to single missense mutations . 
in the four polymorphic variants that have two point mutations , one of the mutations is always _num3 a -- > g -lrb- _num3 asn -- > asp -rrb- , which on its own gives rise to the nondeficient polymorphic variant , g6pd a . 
in a study of g6pd deficient patients who presented with clinical favism in spain , we have found a new polymorphic variant that we have called g6pd malaga , whose only abnormality is a _num3 a -- > t -lrb- _num3 asp -- > val -rrb- mutation . 
this is the same mutation as previously found in association with the mutation of g6pd a in the double mutant , g6pd santamaria . 
g6pd malaga is associated with enzyme deficiency -lrb- class iii -rrb- , and the enzymic properties of g6pd malaga and g6pd santamaria are quite similar , indicating that in this case the effects of the two mutations are additive rather than synergistic . 
g6pd santamaria might have been produced by recombination between g6pd a and g6pd malaga ; however haplotype analysis , including the use of a new silent polymorphism , suggests that the same _num3 a -- > t mutation has taken place independently in a g6pd b gene to give g6pd malaga and in a g6pd a gene to give g6pd santamaria . 
these findings help to outline the relationship and evolution of mutations in the human g6pd locus . . 
fish studies in a patient with sporadic aniridia and t -lrb- _num1 ; _num2 -rrb- -lrb- _an .2 ; _an -rrb- . 
a _num1 year old female presenting with bilateral sporadic aniridia was found to have an apparently balanced reciprocal translocation with a chromosome _num2 breakpoint within band _an . 
fluorescence in situ hybridisation -lrb- fish -rrb- studies with distal 11p13 specific cosmids showed that the chromosome _num2 breakpoint lay between the aniridia -lrb- pax6 -rrb- locus and a region approximately _num3 kb distal to pax6 defined by the cosmid fo2121 . 
although this patient did not have a detectable deletion within pax6 , her aniridia may have resulted from a disruption of the distal chromatin domain containing either enhancers or regulators for pax6 . 
this case may therefore be another example of aniridia caused by a position effect as recently described in two familial aniridia patients in which the phenotype cosegregated with chromosome abnormalities with 11p13 breakpoints . . 
ovarian cancer risk in brca1 carriers is modified by the hras1 variable number of tandem repeat -lrb- vntr -rrb- locus . 
women who carry a mutation in the brca1 gene -lrb- on chromosome 17q21 -rrb- , have an _num2 % risk of breast cancer and a _num2 % risk of ovarian cancer by the age of _num2 -lrb- ref . 
_num1 -rrb- . 
the variable penetrance of brca1 suggests that other genetic and non-genetic factors play a role in tumourigenesis in these individuals . 
the hras1 variable number of tandem repeats -lrb- vntr -rrb- polymorphism , located _num1 kilobase -lrb- kb -rrb- downstream of the hras1 proto-oncogene -lrb- chromosome 11p15 . 
_num1 -rrb- is one possible genetic modifier of cancer penetrance . 
individuals who have rare alleles of the vntr have an increased risk of certain types of cancers , including breast cancer -lrb- 2-4 -rrb- . 
to investigate whether the presence of rare hras1 alleles increases susceptibility to hereditary breast and ovarian cancer , we have typed a panel of _num3 female brca1 carriers at this locus using a pcr-based technique . 
the risk for ovarian cancer was _num1 . 
_num2 times greater for brca1 carriers harbouring one or two rare hras1 alleles , compared to carriers with only common alleles -lrb- p = _num1 . 
_num3 -rrb- . 
the magnitude of the relative risk associated with a rare hras1 allele was not altered by adjusting for the other known risk factors for hereditary ovarian cancer -lrb- _num1 -rrb- . 
susceptibility to breast cancer did not appear to be affected by the presence of rare hras1 alleles . 
this study is the first to show the effect of a modifying gene on the penetrance of an inherited cancer syndrome a previously undescribed mutation within the tetramerisation domain of tp53 in a family with li-fraumeni syndrome . 
we report details of a family with classic li-fraumeni syndrome in which there is a mutation in codon _num3 of the tumour suppressor gene tp53 . 
codon _num3 is a key residue within the tetramerisation domain , and the amino acid substitution of a proline for a leucine is predicted to have profound implications for tetramerisation and potentially dna binding . 
this is the first report of a mutation at this residue in either sporadic tumours or in the germline and the first report of a germline mutation within the tetramerisation domain . 
the family does not appear to be remarkable in the spectrum of tumours , and there is loss of the wild-type allele in a leiomyosarcoma from the proband . 
a cell line has been established from the tumour of the proband and cytogenetic and molecular studies carried out , providing an extensive analysis in this family . . 
trinucleotide repeat expansion at the myotonic dystrophy locus reduces expression of dmahp . 
myotonic dystrophy , or dystrophia myotonica -lrb- dm -rrb- , is an autosomal dominant multisystem disorder caused by the expansion of a _ds trinucleotide repeat in the _num1 untranslated region of the dmpk protein kinase gene on chromosome 19q13 . 
_num1 -lrb- refs 1-3 -rrb- . 
although the dm mutation was identified more than five years ago , the pathogenic mechanisms underlying this most prevalent form of hereditary adult neuromuscular disease remain elusive . 
previous work from our laboratory demonstrated that a dnase l-hypersensitive site located adjacent to the repeats on the wild-type allele is eliminated by repeat expansion , indicating that large ctg-repeat arrays may be associated with a local chromatin environment that represses gene expression . 
here we report that the hypersensitive site contains an enhancer element that regulates transcription of the adjacent dmahp homeobox gene . 
analysis of dmahp expression in the cells of dm patients with loss of the hypersensitive site revealed a two - to fourfold reduction in steady-state dmahp transcript levels relative to wild-type controls . 
allele-specific analysis of dmahp expression showed that steady-state transcript levels from the expanded allele were greatly reduced in comparison to those from the wild-type allele . 
together , these results demonstrate that ctg-repeat expansions can suppress local gene expression and implicate dmahp in dm pathogenesis . 
a mutation in autosomal dominant myotonia congenita affects pore properties of the muscle chloride channel . 
autosomal dominant myotonia congenita is an inherited disorder of skeletal muscle caused by mutations in a voltage-gated cl - channel gene -lrb- clcn1 , 7q35 -rrb- . 
here , we report that a mutation predicting the substitution of gly _num3 by glutamic acid -lrb- g230e -rrb- between segments d3 and d4 dramatically alters the pore properties of a recombinant human muscle cl - channel -lrb- hcic-1 -rrb- expressed in a mammalian cell line -lrb- tsa201 -rrb- . 
the g230e mutation causes substantial changes in anion and cation selectivity as well as a fundamental change in rectification of the current-voltage relationship . 
whereas wild-type channels are characterized by pronounced inward rectification and a cl > thiocyanate > br > no -lrb- _num1 -rrb- > i > ch -lrb- _num1 -rrb- so -lrb- _num1 -rrb- selectivity , g230e exhibits outward rectification at positive potentials and a thiocyanate > no -lrb- _num1 -rrb- > i > br > cl > ch -lrb- _num1 -rrb- so -lrb- _num1 -rrb- selectivity . 
furthermore , the cation-to-anion permeability ratio of the mutant is much greater than that of the wild-type channel . 
voltage-dependent blocks by intracellular and extracellular iodide help to distinguish two distinct ion binding sites within the hclc-1 conduction pathway . 
both binding sites are preserved in the mutant but have decreased affinities for iodide . 
these findings suggest that gly _num3 is critical for normal ion conductance in hclc-1 and that this residue resides within the channel pore . . 
mutation analysis of brca1 and brca2 in a male breast cancer population . 
a population-based series of _num2 male breast cancer cases from southern california were analyzed for germ-line mutations in the inherited breast / ovarian cancer genes , brca1 and brca2 . 
nine -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- of the patients had a family history of breast and / or ovarian cancer in at least one first-degree relative . 
a further seven -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- of the patients reported breast / ovarian cancer in at least one second-degree relative and in no first-degree relatives . 
no germ-line brca1 mutations were found . 
two male breast cancer patients -lrb- _num1 % of the total -rrb- were found to carry novel truncating mutations in the brca2 gene . 
only one of the two male breast cancer patients carrying a brca2 mutation had a family history of cancer , with one case of ovarian cancer in a first-degree relative . 
the remaining eight cases -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- of male breast cancer with a family history of breast / ovarian cancer in first-degree relatives remain unaccounted for by mutations in either the brca1 gene or the brca2 gene . . 
expression of the von hippel-lindau disease tumour suppressor gene during human embryogenesis . 
the von hippel-lindau -lrb- vhl -rrb- disease product is thought to down-regulate transcription by antagonizing elongin-enhanced transcriptional elongation . 
germline vhl gene mutations predispose to the development of retinal , cerebellar and spinal haemangioblastomas , renal cell carcinoma and phaeochromocytoma . 
in addition , somatic inactivation of the vhl gene is frequent in sporadic renal cell carcinoma and haemangioblastoma . 
regulation of transcript elongation is an important control mechanism for gene expression and the vhl gene might modify the expression of proto-oncogenes and growth suppressor genes during embryogenesis . 
we therefore investigated the expression of vhl mrna during human embryogenesis by in situ hybridization studies at _num1 , _num1 and _num2 weeks post conception . 
although vhl mrna was expressed in all three germ layers , strong expression was noted in the central nervous system , kidneys , testis and lung . 
within the kidney , vhl mrna was differentially expressed within renal tubules suggesting that the vhl gene product may have a specific role in kidney development . 
two alternatively spliced vhl mrnas characterized by inclusion -lrb- isoform i -rrb- or exclusion -lrb- isoform ii -rrb- of exon _num1 are transcribed in adult tissues . 
to investigate if the two isoforms are differentially expressed during embryogenesis , vhl mrna was reverse transcribed from _num2 fetal tissues -lrb- 8-10 weeks gestation -rrb- . 
the quantitative distribution of vhl mrna within fetal tissues reflected that seen by in situ hybridization and the ratio of the two vhl isoforms was similar between tissues . 
although the genes regulated by the vhl gene product have not yet been identified , our findings are compatible with the hypothesis that vhl mediated control of transcriptional elongation may have a role in normal human development . . 
screening for esr mutations in breast and ovarian cancer patients . 
in the present study , leukocyte dna from _num3 patients with familial clustering of breast and / or ovarian cancer and tumour dna from _num2 breast carcinomas were screened for base mutations in the estrogen receptor gene -lrb- esr -rrb- . 
three patients with a family history of cancer were carrying a gly160cys germline substitution . 
this alteration was also detected in eight -lrb- four females and four males -rrb- of _num3 controls -lrb- _num3 female , _num3 males -rrb- , indicating that the substitution probably represents a polymorphism . 
however , in the _num3 female controls in whom family history of cancer was known , one of two who had a sister with breast cancer was carrying the variant allele . 
hence , a possible clinical significance of the glycine into cysteine can not be completely ruled out and should be further investigated . 
somatic mutations were not detected in any of the tumours studied , and the present data do not provide support for somatic esr base mutations as an important mechanism for hormonal therapy resistance in estrogen receptor-positive breast carcinomas . . 
increased coronary heart disease in japanese-american men with mutation in the cholesteryl ester transfer protein gene despite increased hdl levels . 
plasma high density lipoprotein -lrb- hdl -rrb- levels are strongly genetically determined and show a general inverse relationship with coronary heart disease -lrb- chd -rrb- . 
the cholesteryl ester transfer protein -lrb- cetp -rrb- mediates the transfer of cholesteryl esters from hdl to other lipoproteins and is a key participant in the reverse transport of cholesterol from the periphery to the liver . 
a high prevalence of two different cetp gene mutations -lrb- d442g , _num1 . 
_num1 % ; intron 14g a , _num1 . 
_num1 % -rrb- , was found in _num1 , _num3 men of japanese ancestry in the honolulu heart program and mutations were associated with decreased cetp -lrb- -35 % -rrb- and increased hdl chol levels -lrb- + _num2 % for d442g -rrb- . 
however , the overall prevalence of definite chd was _num2 % in men with mutations and _num2 % in men without mutations . 
the relative risk -lrb- rr -rrb- of chd was _num1 . 
_num2 in men with mutations -lrb- p < . 
_num2 -rrb- ; after adjustment for chd risk factors , the rr was _num1 . 
_num2 -lrb- p = . 
_num2 -rrb- ; after additional adjustment for hdl levels , the rr was _num1 . 
_num2 -lrb- p = . 
_num3 -rrb- . 
similar rr values were obtained for the d442g mutation alone . 
increased chd in men with mutations was primarily observed for hdl chol 41-60 mg / dl ; for hdl chol > _num2 mg / dl men with and without mutations had low chd prevalence . 
thus , genetic cetp deficiency appears to be an independent risk factor for chd , primarily due to increased chd prevalence in men with the d442g mutation and hdl cholesterol between _num2 and _num2 mg / dl . 
the findings suggest that both hdl concentration and the dynamics of cholesterol transport through hdl -lrb- i. e. , reverse cholesterol transport -rrb- determine the anti-atherogenicity of the hdl fraction . 
analysis of meiotic segregation , using single-sperm typing : meiotic drive at the myotonic dystrophy locus . 
meiotic drive at the myotonic dystrophy -lrb- dm -rrb- locus has recently been suggested as being responsible for maintaining the frequency , in the human population , of dm chromosomes capable of expansion to the disease state . 
in order to test this hypothesis , we have studied samples of single sperm from three individuals heterozygous at the dm locus , each with one allele larger and one allele smaller than _num2 _ds repeats . 
to guard against the possible problem of differential pcr amplification rates based on the lengths of the alleles , the sperm were also typed at another closely linked marker whose allele size was unrelated to the allele size at the dm locus . 
using statistical models specifically designed to study single-sperm segregation data , we find no evidence of meiotic segregation distortion . 
the upper limit of the two-sided _num2 % confidence interval for the estimate of the common segregation probability for the three donors is at or below . 
_num3 for all models considered , and no statistically significant difference from . 
_num1 is detected in any of the models . 
this suggests that any greater amount of segregation distortion at the myotonic dystrophy locus must result from events following sperm ejaculation . 
isolation of full-length atm cdna and correction of the ataxia-telangiectasia cellular phenotype . 
a gene mutated in the human genetic disorder ataxia-telangiectasia -lrb- a-t -rrb- , atm , was recently identified by positional cloning . 
atm is a member of the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase superfamily , some of which are protein kinases and appear to have important roles in cell cycle control and radiation signal transduction . 
we describe herein , to our knowledge , for the first time , the cloning of a full-length cdna for atm and correction of multiple aspects of the radio-sensitive phenotype of a-t cells by transfection with this cdna . 
overexpression of atm cdna in a-t cells enhanced the survival of these cells in response to radiation exposure , decreased radiation-induced chromosome aberrations , reduced radio-resistant dna synthesis , and partially corrected defective cell cycle checkpoints and induction of stress-activated protein kinase . 
this correction of the defects in a-t cells provides further evidence of the multiplicity of effector functions of the atm protein and suggests possible approaches to gene therapy . . 
the spectrum of rb1 germ-line mutations in hereditary retinoblastoma . 
we have searched for germ-line rb1 mutations in _num3 patients with hereditary retinoblastoma . 
previous investigations by southern blot hybridization and pcr fragment-length analysis had revealed mutations in _num2 patients . 
here we report on the analysis of the remaining _num2 patients . 
by applying heteroduplex analysis , nonisotopic sscp , and direct sequencing , we detected germ-line mutations resulting in premature termination codons or disruption of splice signals in _num2 -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- of the _num2 patients . 
four patients also showed rare sequence variants . 
no region of the rb1 gene was preferentially involved in single base substitutions . 
recurrent transitions were observed at most of the _num2 codons within the rb1 . 
no mutation was observed in exons 25-27 , although this region contains two _ds codons . 
this suggests that mutations within the 3-terminal region of the rb1 gene may not be oncogenic . 
when these data were combined with the results of our previous investigations , mutations were identified in a total of _num2 -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- of _num3 patients . 
the spectrum comprises _num2 % large deletions , _num2 % small length alterations , and _num2 % base substitutions . 
no correlation between the location of frameshift or nonsense mutations and phenotypic features , including age at diagnosis , the number of tumor foci , and manifestation of nonocular tumors was observed . . 
wiskott-aldrich syndrome protein , a novel effector for the gtpase cdc42hs , is implicated in actin polymerization . 
the rho family of gtpases control diverse biological processes , including cell morphology and mitogenesis . 
we have identified wasp , the protein that is defective in wiskott-aldrich syndrome -lrb- was -rrb- , as a novel effector for cdc42hs , but not for the other rho family members , rac and rho . 
this interaction is dependent on the presence of the g protein-binding domain . 
cellular expression of epitope-tagged wasp produces clusters of wasp that are highly enriched in polymerized actin . 
this clustering is not observed with a c-terminally deleted wasp and is inhibited by coexpression with dominant negative cdc42hs-n17 , but not with dominant negative forms of rac or rho . 
thus , wasp provides a novel link between cdc42hs and the actin cytoskeleton , which suggests a molecular mechanism for many of the cellular abnormalities in was . 
the wasp sequence contains two novel domains that are homologous to other proteins involved in action organization . . 
adult onset globoid cell leukodystrophy -lrb- krabbe disease -rrb- : analysis of galactosylceramidase cdna from four japanese patients . 
we examined galactosylceramidase -lrb- galc -rrb- cdna in four japanese patients with adult onset globoid cell leukodystrophy -lrb- krabbe disease ; ao-gld -rrb- by polymerase chain reaction / single-strand conformation polymorphism -lrb- pcr-sscp -rrb- analysis , subsequent sequence determination , and restriction enzyme digestion of pcr products , initial symptoms were the onset of slowly progressive spastic paraplegia from the middle of the second decade , and all patients had diminished galc activity in their leukocytes . 
we identified three missense mutations -lrb- i66m , g270d , l618s -rrb- and one exon-6 skipping -lrb- 535-573del -rrb- . 
two of the patients had only the i66m mutant mrna , and one only the g27od mutant mrna . 
the fourth patient carried a compound heterozygous mutation of 535-573del and l618s . 
to determine the enzymatic activities produced by these mutations , we constructed mutated galc cdnas and expressed them in cos-1 cells . 
three mutations , viz. , g270d , l618s , and exon-6 skipping -lrb- 535-573del -rrb- , produced diminished galc activity as expected . 
the i66m mutation in the wild-type galc cdna -lrb- _an -rrb- had normal activity , but when this mutation and the _an polymorphism were introduced into the same allele , it had decreased activity . 
thus , the combination of a unique mutation and polymorphism causes conformational change in the galc enzyme , resulting in low enzymatic activity . 
ao-gld mutations , including those found here , are located in the n-terminus -lrb- i66m , g270d , 535-573del -rrb- or c-terminus -lrb- l618s -rrb- of the galc enzyme , whereas the reported mutations in the infantile form -lrb- if-gld -rrb- are in the central domain . 
this difference in mutation sites may affect the clinical features of gld . 
brca1 is secreted and exhibits properties of a granin . 
germline mutations in brca1 are responsible for most cases of inherited breast and ovarian cancer . 
however , the function of the brca1 protein has remained elusive . 
we now show that brca1 encodes a 190-kd protein with sequence homology and biochemical analogy to the granin protein family . 
interestingly , brca2 also includes a motif similar to the granin consensus at the c terminus of the protein . 
both brca1 and the granins localize to secretory vesicles , are secreted by a regulated pathway , are post-translationally glycosylated and are responsive to hormones . 
as a regulated secretory protein , brca1 appears to function by a mechanism not previously described for tumour suppressor gene products . . 
insulin gene region contributes to genetic susceptibility to , but may not to low incidence of , insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus in japanese . 
in the caucasian population , it has been demonstrated that the insulin gene -lrb- ins -rrb- region contains the insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus locus -lrb- iddm2 -rrb- . 
in the japanese population , however , there has been no report demonstrating the contribution of iddm2 to the pathogenesis of iddm . 
we conducted an association study of iddm in a large number of japanese subjects with multiple polymorphisms in ins region . 
we found a significant association of the ins region with iddm . 
alleles positively associated with iddm in ins region were the same as those positively-associated with iddm in caucasian population , although positively-associated alleles are very common -lrb- allele frequencies > _num1 . 
_num1 -rrb- in the japanese general population . 
these data suggest that iddm2 is involved in the genetic susceptibility to iddm in japanese . 
the high frequencies of disease-associated alleles in the general population suggest that iddm2 locus is not responsible for the low incidence of iddm in japanese . 
association of anxiety-related traits with a polymorphism in the serotonin transporter gene regulatory region . 
transporter-facilitated uptake of serotonin -lrb- 5-hydroxytryptamine or 5-ht -rrb- has been implicated in anxiety in humans and animal models and is the site of action of widely used uptake-inhibiting antidepressant and antianxiety drugs . 
human 5-ht transporter -lrb- 5-htt -rrb- gene transcription is modulated by a common polymorphism in its upstream regulatory region . 
the short variant of the polymorphism reduces the transcriptional efficiency of the 5-htt gene promoter , resulting in decreased 5-htt expression and 5-ht uptake in lymphoblasts . 
association studies in two independent samples totaling _num3 individuals revealed that the 5-htt polymorphism accounts for _num1 to _num1 percent of total variation and _num1 to _num1 percent of inherited variance in anxiety-related personality traits in individuals as well as sibships . . 
cloning and characterization of human very-long-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase cdna , chromosomal assignment of the gene and identification in four patients of nine different mutations within the vlcad gene . 
very-long-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase -lrb- vlcad -rrb- is one of four straight-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase -lrb- acd -rrb- enzymes , which are all nuclear encoded mitochondrial flavoproteins catalyzing the initial step in fatty acid beta-oxidation . 
we have used the very fast , rapid amplification of cdna ends -lrb- race -rrb- based strategy to obtain the sequence of cdnas encoding human vlcad from placenta and fibroblasts . 
alignment of the predicted amino acid sequence of human vlcad with those of the other human acd enzymes revealed extensive sequence homology . 
moreover , human vlcad and human acyl-coa oxidase showed extensive sequence homology corroborating the notion that these genes are evolutionarily related . 
southern blot analysis of genomic dna from hybrid cell lines was used to localize the vlcad gene to human chromosome 17p11 . 
2-p11 . 
_num5 . 
using northern and western blot analysis to investigate the tissue specific distribution of vlcad mrna and protein in several human tissues we showed that vlcad is most abundant in heart and skeletal muscle . 
this agrees well with the fact that cardiac and muscle symptoms are characteristic for patients with vlcad deficiency . 
northern blot analysis and sequencing of cloned pcr amplified vlcad cdna from four unrelated patients with vlcad deficiency showed that vlcad mrna was undetectable in one patient and that the other three have mutations in both vlcad alleles . 
western blot analysis of patient fibroblasts showed that the identified mutations result in severely reduced amounts of vlcad protein . 
genetic bases of human complement c7 deficiency . 
complement c7 deficiency -lrb- c7d -rrb- is associated frequently with recurrent bacterial infections , especially meningitis caused by neisseria meningitidis . 
we report in this work the molecular bases of c7d in two unrelated japanese males . 
we used exon-specific pcr / single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis as a screening step for mutations . 
subsequent direct sequencing of the target exons identified homozygous mutations in exon _num2 of case _num1 and in exon _num2 of case _num1 . 
the mutation of case _num1 was a homozygous t to a transversion at nucleotide _num4 , the third nucleotide of the codon _ds for cys728 , leading to a stop codon _ds -lrb- c728x -rrb- . 
in case _num1 , a homozygous 2-bp deletion -lrb- 2137deltg / 2138delgt / 2139deltg -rrb- caused a frameshift , generating a premature termination codon _num1 to _num1 nucleotides downstream . 
family study in case _num1 confirmed the genetic nature of the defect . 
moreover , we detected a novel polymorphism in intron _num2 that presumably is linked to the mutation responsible for c7d in case _num1 . 
our results indicate that the pathogenesis of c7d is heterogeneous like most of the other deficiencies of complement components . . 
defective dimerization of von willebrand factor subunits due to a cys - > arg mutation in type iid von willebrand disease . 
the same heterozygous t - > c transition at nt _num4 of the von willebrand factor -lrb- vwf -rrb- transcript was found in two unrelated patients with type iid von willebrand disease , with no other apparent abnormality . 
in one family , both alleles were normal in the parents and one sister ; thus , the mutation originated de novo in the proposita . 
the second patient also had asymptomatic parents who , however , were not available for study . 
the structural consequences of the identified mutation , resulting in the cys2010 - > arg substitution , were evaluated by expression of the vwf carboxyl-terminal domain containing residues 1366-2050 . 
insect cells infected with recombinant baculovirus expressing normal vwf sequence secreted a disulfide linked dimeric molecule with an apparent molecular mass of _num3 kda before reduction , yielding a single band of _num2 kda after disulfide bond reduction . 
in contrast , cells expressing the mutant fragment secreted a monomeric molecule of apparent molecular mass of _num2 kda , which remained unchanged after reduction . 
we conclude that cys2010 is essential for normal dimerization of vwf subunits through disulfide bonding of carboxyl-terminal domains and that a heterozygous mutation in the corresponding codon is responsible for defective multimer formation in type iid von willebrand disease . . 
ataxia-telangiectasia : founder effect among north african jews . 
the atm gene is responsible for the autosomal recessive disorder ataxia-telangiectasia -lrb- a-t -rrb- , characterized by cerebellar degeneration , immunodeficiency and cancer predisposition . 
a-t carriers were reported to be moderately cancer-prone . 
a wide variety of a-t mutations , most of which are unique to single families , were identified in various ethnic groups , precluding carrier screening with mutation-specific assays . 
however , a single mutation was observed in 32 / 33 defective atm alleles in jewish a-t families of north african origin , coming from various regions of morocco and tunisia . 
this mutation , 103c -- > t , results in a stop codon at position _num2 of the atm protein . 
in keeping with the nature of this mutation , various antibodies directed against the atm protein failed to defect this protein in patient cells . 
a rapid carrier detection assay detected this mutation in three out of _num3 atm alleles of jewish moroccan or tunisian origin . 
this founder effect provides a unique opportunity for population-based screening for a-t carriers in a large jewish community . . 
mutations associated with variant phenotypes in ataxia-telangiectasia . 
we have identified _num2 families with ataxia-telangiectasia -lrb- a-t -rrb- in which mutation of the atm gene is associated with a less severe clinical and cellular phenotype -lrb- approximately _num2 % -15 % of a-t families identified in the united kingdom -rrb- . 
in _num2 of these families , all the homozygotes have a 137-bp insertion in their cdna caused by a point mutation in a sequence resembling a splice-donor site . 
the second a-t allele has a different mutation in each patient . 
we show that the less severe phenotype in these patients is caused by some degree of normal splicing , which occurs as an alternative product from the insertion-containing allele . 
the level of the 137-bp pcr product containing the insertion was lowest in two patients who showed a later onset of cerebellar ataxia . 
a further four families who do not have this insertion have been identified . 
mutations detected in two of four of these are missense mutations , normally rare in a-t patients . 
the demonstration of mutations giving rise to a slightly milder phenotype in a-t raises the interesting question of what range of phenotypes might occur in individuals in whom both mutations are milder . 
one possibility might be that individuals who are compound heterozygotes for atm mutations are more common than we realize . . 
cleavage of huntingtin by apopain , a proapoptotic cysteine protease , is modulated by the polyglutamine tract . 
apoptosis has recently been recognized as a mode of cell death in huntington disease -lrb- hd -rrb- . 
apopain , a human counterpart of the nematode cysteine protease death-gene product , ced-3 , has a key role in proteolytic events leading to apoptosis . 
here we show that apoptotic extracts and apopain itself specifically cleave the hd gene product , huntingtin . 
the rate of cleavage increases with the length of the huntingtin polyglutamine tract , providing an explanation for the gain-of-function associated with _ds expansion . 
our results show that huntingtin is cleaved by cysteine proteases and suggest that hd might be a disorder of inappropriate apoptosis . . 
genetic mapping of the copper toxicosis locus in bedlington terriers to dog chromosome _num2 , in a region syntenic to human chromosome region 2p13-p16 . 
abnormal hepatic copper accumulation is recognized as an inherited disorder in man , mouse , rat and dog . 
the major cause of hepatic copper accumulation in man is a dysfunctional atp7b gene , causing wilson disease -lrb- wd -rrb- . 
mutations in the atp7b genes have also been demonstrated in mouse and rat . 
the atp7b gene has been excluded in the much rarer human copper overload disease non-indian childhood cirrhosis , indicating genetic heterogeneity . 
by investigating the common autosomal recessive copper toxicosis -lrb- _ds -rrb- in bedlington terriers , we have identified a new locus involved in progressive liver disease . 
we examined whether the wd gene atp7b was also causative for _ds by investigating the chromosomal co-localization of atp7b and _an , using fluorescence in situ hybridization -lrb- fish -rrb- . 
_an is an anonymous microsatellite marker closely linked to _ds . . 
however , bac clones containing atp7b and _an mapped to the canine chromosome regions cfa22q11 and cfa10q26 , respectively , demonstrating that wd can not be homologous to _ds . . 
the copper transport genes ctr1 and ctr2 were also excluded as candidate genes for _ds since they both mapped to canine chromosome region cfa11q22 . 
2-22 . 
_num1 . 
a transcribed sequence identified from the c04107-containing bac was found to be homologous to a gene expressed from human chromosome 2p13-p16 , a region devoid of any positional candidate genes . 
molecular analysis of the apc gene in _num3 families : extended genotype-phenotype correlations in fap and evidence for the role of apc amino acid changes in colorectal cancer predisposition . 
background / aims the development of colorectal cancer and a variable range of extracolonic manifestations in familial adenomatous polyposis -lrb- fap -rrb- is the result of the dominant inheritance of adenomatous polyposis coli -lrb- apc -rrb- gene mutations . 
in this study , direct mutation analysis of the apc gene was performed to determine genotype-phenotype correlations for nine extracolonic manifestations and to investigate the incidence of apc mutations in non-fap colorectal cancer . 
methods the apc gene was analysed in _num3 unrelated fap and _num2 non-fap colorectal cancer patients using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis , the protein truncation test , and direct sequencing . 
results chain terminating signals were only identified in patients belonging to the fap group -lrb- _num3 patients -rrb- . 
amino acid changes were identified in four patients , three of whom belonged to the non-fap group of colorectal cancer patients . 
genotype-phenotype correlations identified significant differences in the nature of certain extracolonic manifestations in fap patients belonging to three mutation subgroups . 
conclusions extended genotype-phenotype correlations made in this study may have the potential to determine the most appropriate surveillance and prophylactic treatment regimens for those patients with mutations associated with life threatening conditions . 
this study also provided evidence for the pathological nature of amino acid changes in apc associated with both fap and non-fap colorectal cancer patients . . 
a european multicenter study of phenylalanine hydroxylase deficiency : classification of _num3 mutations and a general system for genotype-based prediction of metabolic phenotype . 
phenylketonuria -lrb- pku -rrb- and mild hyperphenylalaninemia -lrb- mhp -rrb- are allelic disorders caused by mutations in the gene encoding phenylalanine hydroxylase -lrb- pah -rrb- . 
previous studies have suggested that the highly variable metabolic phenotypes of pah deficiency correlate with pah genotypes . 
we identified both causative mutations in _num3 patients from seven european centers . 
on the basis of the phenotypic characteristics of _num3 functionally hemizygous patients , _num3 of the mutations were assigned to one of four arbitrary phenotype categories . 
we proposed and tested a simple model for correlation between genotype and phenotypic outcome . 
the observed phenotype matched the predicted phenotype in _num2 % of the cases , and in only _num1 of _num3 patients was the observed phenotype more than one category away from that expected . 
among the seven contributing centers , the proportion of patients for whom the observed phenotype did not match the predicted phenotype was _num1 % -23 % -lrb- p < . 
_num4 -rrb- , suggesting that differences in methods used for mutation detection or phenotype classification may account for a considerable proportion of genotype-phenotype inconsistencies . 
our data indicate that the pah-mutation genotype is the main determinant of metabolic phenotype in most patients with pah deficiency . 
in the present study , the classification of _num3 pah mutations may allow the prediction of the biochemical phenotype in > _num2 , _num3 genotypes , which may be useful for the management of hyperphenylalaninemia in newborns . 
disruption of splicing regulated by a cug-binding protein in myotonic dystrophy . 
myotonic dystrophy -lrb- dm -rrb- is caused by a _ds expansion in the _num1 untranslated region of the dm gene . 
one model of dm pathogenesis suggests that rnas from the expanded allele create a gain-of-function mutation by the inappropriate binding of proteins to the cug repeats . 
data presented here indicate that the conserved heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein , cug-binding protein -lrb- cug-bp -rrb- , may mediate the trans-dominant effect of the rna . 
cug-bp was found to bind to the human cardiac troponin t -lrb- ctnt -rrb- pre-messenger rna and regulate its alternative splicing . 
splicing of ctnt was disrupted in dm striated muscle and in normal cells expressing transcripts that contain cug repeats . 
altered expression of genes regulated posttranscriptionally by cug-bp therefore may contribute to dm pathogenesis . . 
maternal disomy and prader-willi syndrome consistent with gamete complementation in a case of familial translocation -lrb- _num1 ; _num2 -rrb- -lrb- _an ; _an .2 -rrb- . 
maternal uniparental disomy -lrb- upd -rrb- for chromosome _num2 is responsible for an estimated _num2 % of cases of prader-willi syndrome -lrb- pws -rrb- . 
we report on an unusual case of maternal disomy _num2 in pws that is most consistent with adjacent-1 segregation of a paternal t -lrb- _num1 ; _num2 -rrb- -lrb- _an ; _an . 
_num1 -rrb- with simultaneous maternal meiotic nondisjunction for chromosome _num2 . 
the patient -lrb- j. b. -rrb- , a 17-year-old white male with pws , was found to have _num2 chromosomes with a supernumerary , paternal der -lrb- _num2 -rrb- consisting of the short arm and the proximal long arm of chromosome _num2 , and distal chromosome arm 3p . 
the t -lrb- _num1 ; _num2 -rrb- was present in the balanced state in the patients father and a sister . 
fluorescent in situ hybridization analysis demonstrated that the pws critical region resided on the derivative chromosome _num1 and that there was no deletion of the pws region on the normal pair of 15s present in j. b. methylation analysis at exon alpha of the small nuclear ribonucleoprotein-associated polypeptide n -lrb- snrpn -rrb- gene showed a pattern characteristic of only the maternal chromosome _num2 in j. b. maternal disomy was confirmed by polymerase chain reaction analysis of microsatellite repeats at the gamma-aminobutyric acid receptor beta3 subunit -lrb- gabrb3 -rrb- locus . 
a niece -lrb- b. b. -rrb- with _num2 chromosomes and the derivative _num1 but without the der -lrb- _num2 -rrb- demonstrated a phenotype consistent with that reported for haploinsufficiency of distal _num1 p. uniparental disomy associated with unbalanced segregation of non-robertsonian translocations has been reported previously but has not , to our knowledge , been observed in a case of pws . 
furthermore , our findings are best interpreted as true gamete complementation resulting in maternal upd _num2 and pws segregation distortion in myotonic dystrophy . 
myotonic dystrophy -lrb- dm -rrb- is an autosomal dominant disease which , in the typical pedigree , shows a three generation anticipation cascade . 
this results in infertility and congenital myotonic dystrophy -lrb- cdm -rrb- with the disappearance of dm in that pedigree . 
the concept of segregation distortion , where there is preferential transmission of the larger allele at the dm locus , has been put forward to explain partially the maintenance of dm in the population . 
in a survey of dm in northern ireland , _num2 pedigrees were ascertained . 
sibships where the status of all the members had been identified were examined to determine the transmission of the dm expansion from affected parents to their offspring . 
where the transmitting parent was male , _num2 . 
_num1 % of the offspring were affected , and in the case of a female transmitting parent , _num2 . 
_num1 % were affected . 
studies on meiotic drive in dm have shown increased transmission of the larger allele at the dm locus in non-dm heterozygotes for ctgn . 
this study provides further evidence that the dm expansion tends to be transmitted preferentially . 
ataxia-telangiectasia : identification and detection of founder-effect mutations in the atm gene in ethnic populations . 
to facilitate the evaluation of atm heterozygotes for susceptibility to other diseases , such as breast cancer , we have attempted to define the most common mutations and their frequencies in ataxia-telangiectasia -lrb- a-t -rrb- homozygotes from _num2 ethnic populations . 
both genomic mutations and their effects on cdna were characterized . 
protein-truncation testing of the entire atm cdna detected _num2 -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- truncating mutations in _num3 mutant alleles screened . 
the haplotyping of patients with identical mutations indicates that almost all of these represent common ancestry and that very few spontaneously recurring atm mutations exist . 
assays requiring minimal amounts of genomic dna were designed to allow rapid screening for common ethnic mutations . 
these rapid assays detected mutations in _num2 % of costa rican patients -lrb- _num1 -rrb- , _num2 % of norwegian patients -lrb- _num1 -rrb- , _num2 % of polish patients -lrb- _num1 -rrb- , and _num2 % of italian patients -lrb- _num1 -rrb- , as well as in patients of amish / mennonite and irish english backgrounds . 
additional mutations were observed in japanese , utah mormon , and african american patients . 
these assays should facilitate screening for a-t heterozygotes in the populations studied . . 
constitutional rb1-gene mutations in patients with isolated unilateral retinoblastoma . 
in most patients with isolated unilateral retinoblastoma , tumor development is initiated by somatic inactivation of both alleles of the rb1 gene . 
however , some of these patients can transmit retinoblastoma predisposition to their offspring . 
to determine the frequency and nature of constitutional rb1-gene mutations in patients with isolated unilateral retinoblastoma , we analyzed dna from peripheral blood and from tumor tissue . 
the analysis of tumors from _num2 -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- of _num2 informative patients showed loss of constitutional heterozygosity -lrb- loh -rrb- at intragenic loci . 
three of _num2 uninformative patients had constitutional deletions . 
for _num2 randomly selected tumors , sscp , hetero-duplex analysis , sequencing , and southern blot analysis were used to identify mutations . 
mutations were detected in _num2 -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- of _num2 tumors with loh . 
in _num1 -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- of _num2 tumors without loh , one mutation was detected , and in _num1 -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- of the tumors without loh , both mutations were found . 
thus , a total of _num2 mutations were identified in tumors of _num2 patients . 
thirty-nine of the mutations-including _num2 small mutations , _num1 large structural alterations , and hypermethylation in _num1 tumors-were not detected in the corresponding peripheral blood dna . 
in _num1 -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- of the _num2 patients , a mutation was detected in constitutional dna , and _num1 of these mutations is known to be associated with reduced expressivity . 
the presence of a constitutional mutation was not associated with an early age at treatment . 
in _num1 patient , somatic mosaicism was demonstrated by molecular analysis of dna and rna from peripheral blood . 
in _num1 patients without a detectable mutation in peripheral blood , mosaicism was suggested because _num1 of the patients showed multifocal tumors and the other later developed bilateral retinoblastoma . 
in conclusion , our results emphasize that the manifestation and transmissibility of retinoblastoma depend on the nature of the first mutation , its time in development , and the number and types of cells that are affected . . 
missense mutations in the most ancient residues of the pax6 paired domain underlie a spectrum of human congenital eye malformations . 
mutations of the human pax6 gene underlie aniridia -lrb- congenital absence of the iris -rrb- , a rare dominant malformation of the eye . 
the spectrum of pax6 mutations in aniridia patients is highly biased , with _num2 % of all reported mutations leading to premature truncation of the protein -lrb- nonsense , splicing , insertions and deletions -rrb- and just _num1 % leading to substitution of one amino acid by another -lrb- missense -rrb- . 
the extraordinary conservation of the pax6 protein at the amino acid level amongst vertebrates predicts that pathological missense mutations should in fact be common even though they are hardly ever seen in aniridia patients . 
this indicates that there is a heavy ascertainment bias in the selection of patients for pax6 mutation analysis and that the missing pax6 missense mutations frequently may underlie phenotypes distinct from textbook aniridia . 
here we present four novel pax6 missense mutations , two in association with atypical phenotypes ectopia pupillae -lrb- displaced pupils -rrb- and congenital nystagmus -lrb- searching gaze -rrb- , and two in association with more recognizable aniridia phenotypes . 
strikingly , all four mutations are located within the pax6 paired domain and affect amino acids which are highly conserved in all known paired domain proteins . 
our results support the hypothesis that the under-representation of missense mutations is caused by ascertainment bias and suggest that a substantial burden of pax6 related disease remains to be uncovered . . 
somatic instability of the _ds repeat in mice transgenic for the myotonic dystrophy region is age dependent but not correlated to the relative intertissue transcription levels and proliferative capacities . 
a -lrb- _ds -rrb- nexpansion in the 3-untranslated region -lrb- utr -rrb- of the dm protein kinase gene -lrb- dmpk -rrb- is responsible for causing myotonic dystrophy -lrb- dm -rrb- . 
major instability , with very large expansions between generations and high levels of somatic mosaicism , is observed in patients . 
there is a good correlation between repeat size -lrb- at least in leucocytes -rrb- , clinical severity and age of onset . 
the trinucleotide repeat instability mechanisms involved in dm and other human genetic diseases are unknown . 
we studied somatic instability by measuring the _ds repeat length at several ages in various tissues of transgenic mice carrying a -lrb- _ds -rrb- 55expansion surrounded by _num2 kb of the human dm region , using small-pool pcr . 
these mice have been shown to reproduce the intergenerational and somatic instability of the _num2 _ds repeat suggesting that surrounding sequences and the chromatin environment are involved in instability mechanisms . 
as observed in some of the tissues of dm patients , there is a tendency for repeat length and somatic mosaicism to increase with the age of the mouse . 
furthermore , we observed no correlation between the somatic mutation rate and tissue proliferation capacity . 
the somatic mutation rates in different tissues were also not correlated to the relative inter-tissue difference in transcriptional levels of the three genes -lrb- dmahp , dmpk and _num2 -rrb- surrounding the repeat . . 
atm mutations and phenotypes in ataxia-telangiectasia families in the british isles : expression of mutant atm and the risk of leukemia , lymphoma , and breast cancer . 
we report the spectrum of _num2 atm mutations observed in ataxia-telangiectasia -lrb- a-t -rrb- patients in the british isles . 
of _num2 atm mutations identified in families native to the british isles , _num2 were founder mutations , and _num1 of these _num2 conferred a milder clinical phenotype with respect to both cerebellar degeneration and cellular features . 
we report , in two a-t families , an atm mutation -lrb- 7271t -- > g -rrb- that may be associated with an increased risk of breast cancer in both homozygotes and heterozygotes -lrb- relative risk _num2 . 
_num1 ; p = . 
_num4 -rrb- , although there is a less severe a-t phenotype in terms of the degree of cerebellar degeneration . 
this mutation -lrb- 7271t -- > g -rrb- also allows expression of full-length atm protein at a level comparable with that in unaffected individuals . 
in addition , we have studied _num2 a-t patients , in _num2 families , who developed leukemia , lymphoma , preleukemic t-cell proliferation , or hodgkin lymphoma , mostly in childhood . 
a wide variety of atm mutation types , including missense mutations and in-frame deletions , were seen in these patients . 
we also show that _num2 % of all a-t patients carried in-frame deletions or missense mutations , many of which were also associated with expression of mutant atm protein . 
low frequency of brca1 germline mutations in _num2 german breast / ovarian cancer families . 
in this study we investigated _num2 german breast / ovarian cancer families for germline mutations in the brca1 gene . 
we identified four germline mutations in three breast cancer families and in one breast-ovarian cancer family . 
among these were one frameshift mutation , one nonsense mutation , one novel splice site mutation , and one missense mutation . 
the missense mutation was also found in _num1 . 
_num1 % of the general population , suggesting that it is not disease associated . 
the average age of disease onset in those families harbouring causative mutations was between _num2 . 
_num1 and _num2 . 
_num1 years , whereas the family harbouring the missense mutation had an average age of onset of _num2 . 
_num1 years . 
these findings show that brca1 is implicated in a small fraction of breast / ovarian cancer families suggesting the involvement of another susceptibility gene -lrb- s -rrb- oral contraceptives and the risk of hereditary ovarian cancer . 
hereditary ovarian cancer clinical study group . 
background women with mutations in either the brca1 or the brca2 gene have a high lifetime risk of ovarian cancer . 
oral contraceptives protect against ovarian cancer in general , but it is not known whether they also protect against hereditary forms of ovarian cancer . 
methods we enrolled _num3 women with hereditary ovarian cancer and _num3 of their sisters as controls in a case-control study . 
all the patients carried a pathogenic mutation in either brca1 -lrb- _num3 women -rrb- or brca2 -lrb- _num2 women -rrb- . 
the control women were enrolled regardless of whether or not they had either mutation . 
lifetime histories of oral-contraceptive use were obtained by interview or by written questionnaire and were compared between patients and control women , after adjustment for year of birth and parity . 
results the adjusted odds ratio for ovarian cancer associated with any past use of oral contraceptives was _num1 . 
_num1 -lrb- _num2 percent confidence interval , _num1 . 
_num1 to _num1 . 
_num1 -rrb- . 
the risk decreased with increasing duration of use -lrb- p for trend , < _num1 . 
_num3 -rrb- ; use for six or more years was associated with a _num2 percent reduction in risk . 
oral-contraceptive use protected against ovarian cancer both for carriers of the brca1 mutation -lrb- odds ratio , _num1 . 
_num1 ; _num2 percent confidence interval , _num1 . 
_num1 to _num1 . 
_num1 -rrb- and for carriers of the brca2 mutation -lrb- odds ratio , _num1 . 
_num1 ; _num2 percent confidence interval , _num1 . 
_num1 to _num1 . 
_num1 -rrb- . 
conclusions oral-contraceptive use may reduce the risk of ovarian cancer in women with pathogenic mutations in the brca1 or brca2 gene founder brca1 and brca2 mutations in french canadian breast and ovarian cancer families . 
we have identified four mutations in each of the breast cancer susceptibility genes , brca1 and brca2 , in french canadian breast cancer and breast / ovarian cancer families from quebec . 
to identify founder effects , we examined independently ascertained french canadian cancer families for the distribution of these eight mutations . 
mutations were found in _num2 of _num2 families . 
six of eight mutations were observed at least twice . 
the brca1 c4446t mutation was the most common mutation found , followed by the brca2 8765delag mutation . 
together , these mutations were found in _num2 of _num2 families identified to have a mutation . 
the odds of detection of any of the four brca1 mutations was _num2 . 
7x greater if one or more cases of ovarian cancer were also present in the family . 
the odds of detection of any of the four brca2 mutations was _num1 . 
3x greater if there were at least five cases of breast cancer in the family . 
interestingly , the presence of a breast cancer case < _num2 years of age was strongly predictive of the presence of any of the eight mutations screened . 
carriers of the same mutation , from different families , shared similar haplotypes , indicating that the mutant alleles were likely to be identical by descent for a mutation in the founder population . 
the identification of common brca1 and brca2 mutations will facilitate carrier detection in french canadian breast cancer and breast / ovarian cancer families . 
truncation mutations in the transactivation region of pax6 result in dominant-negative mutants . 
pax6 is a transcription factor with two dna-binding domains -lrb- paired box and homeobox -rrb- and a proline-serine-threonine -lrb- pst -rrb- - rich transactivation domain . 
pax6 regulates eye development in animals ranging from jellyfish to drosophila to humans . 
heterozygous mutations in the human pax6 gene result in various phenotypes , including aniridia , peters anomaly , autosomal dominant keratitis , and familial foveal dysplasia . 
it is believed that the mutated allele of pax6 produces an inactive protein and aniridia is caused due to genetic haploinsufficiency . 
however , several truncation mutations have been found to occur in the c-terminal half of pax6 in patients with aniridia resulting in mutant proteins that retain the dna-binding domains but have lost most of the transactivation domain . 
it is not clear whether such mutants really behave as loss-of-function mutants as predicted by haploinsufficiency . 
contrary to this theory , our data showed that these mutants are dominant-negative in transient transfection assays when they are coexpressed with wild-type pax6 . 
we found that the dominant-negative effects result from the enhanced dna binding ability of these mutants . 
kinetic studies of binding and dissociation revealed that various truncation mutants have 3-5-fold higher affinity to various dna-binding sites when compared with the wild-type pax6 . 
these results provide a new insight into the role of mutant pax6 in causing aniridia . . 
crystal structure of the hemochromatosis protein hfe and characterization of its interaction with transferrin receptor . 
hfe is an mhc-related protein that is mutated in the iron-overload disease hereditary hemochromatosis . 
hfe binds to transferrin receptor -lrb- tfr -rrb- and reduces its affinity for iron-loaded transferrin , implicating hfe in iron metabolism . 
the _num1 . 
_num1 a crystal structure of hfe reveals the locations of hemochromatosis mutations and a patch of histidines that could be involved in ph-dependent interactions . 
we also demonstrate that soluble tfr and hfe bind tightly at the basic ph of the cell surface , but not at the acidic ph of intracellular vesicles . 
tfr hfe stoichiometry -lrb- _num1 _num1 -rrb- differs from tfr transferrin stoichiometry -lrb- _num1 _num1 -rrb- , implying a different mode of binding for hfe and transferrin to tfr , consistent with our demonstration that hfe , transferrin , and tfr form a ternary complex . 
stable interaction between the products of the brca1 and brca2 tumor suppressor genes in mitotic and meiotic cells . 
brca1 and brca2 account for most cases of familial , early onset breast and / or ovarian cancer and encode products that each interact with hrad51 . 
results presented here show that brca1 and brca2 coexist in a biochemical complex and colocalize in subnuclear foci in somatic cells and on the axial elements of developing synaptonemal complexes . 
like brca1 and rad51 , brca2 relocates to pcna + replication sites following exposure of s phase cells to hydroxyurea or uv irradiation . 
thus , brca1 and brca2 participate , together , in a pathway -lrb- s -rrb- associated with the activation of double-strand break repair and / or homologous recombination . 
dysfunction of this pathway may be a general phenomenon in the majority of cases of hereditary breast and / or ovarian cancer . . 
a novel arg362ser mutation in the sterol 27-hydroxylase gene -lrb- cyp27 -rrb- : its effects on pre-mrna splicing and enzyme activity . 
a novel c to a mutation in the sterol 27-hydroxylase gene -lrb- cyp27 -rrb- was identified by sequencing amplified cyp27 gene products from a patient with cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis -lrb- ctx -rrb- . 
the mutation changed the adrenodoxin cofactor binding residue 362arg to 362ser -lrb- _ds 362arg to _ds 362ser -rrb- , and was responsible for deficiency in the sterol 27-hydroxylase activity , as confirmed by expression of mutant cdna into cos-1 cells . 
quantitative analysis showed that the expression of cyp27 gene mrna in the patient represented _num2 . 
_num1 % of the normal level . 
as the mutation occurred at the penultimate nucleotide of exon _num1 -lrb- -2 position of exon 6-intron _num1 splice site -rrb- of the gene , we hypothesized that the mutation may partially affect the normal splicing efficiency in exon _num1 and cause alternative splicing elsewhere , which resulted in decreased transcript in the patient . 
transfection of constructed minigenes , with or without the mutation , into cos-1 cells confirmed that the mutant minigene was responsible for a mrna species alternatively spliced at an activated cryptic _num1 splice site _num2 bp upstream from the _num1 end of exon _num1 . 
our data suggest that the c to a mutation at the penultimate nucleotide of exon _num1 of the cyp27 gene not only causes the deficiency in the sterol 27-hydroxylase activity , but also partially leads to alternative pre-mrna splicing of the gene . 
to our knowledge , this is the first report regarding effects on pre-mrna splicing of a mutation at the -2 position of a _num1 splice site . 
a japanese family with adrenoleukodystrophy with a codon _num3 deletion : a clinical , biochemical , pathological , and genetic report . 
we report a japanese family with adrenoleukodystrophy -lrb- ald -rrb- with a three base pair deletion -lrb- delgag _num3 -rrb- in the ald gene . 
a variety of phenotypes were observed within this family . 
while the proband -lrb- patient _num1 -rrb- was classified as having a rare intermediate type of adult cerebral and cerebello-brain stem forms , his younger brother -lrb- patient _num1 -rrb- and nephew -lrb- patient _num1 -rrb- had a childhood ald type . 
another nephew -lrb- patient _num1 -rrb- of patient _num1 was classified as having an adolescent form . 
the tau level in the cerebrospinal fluid -lrb- csf -rrb- in patient _num1 was as high as that of patients with alzheimers disease -lrb- ad -rrb- . 
his brain magnetic resonance image -lrb- mri -rrb- showed abnormalities in the bilateral cerebellar hemispheres and brain stem , but not in the cerebral white matter , where marked reductions of the cerebral blood flow and oxygen metabolism were clearly demonstrated by positron emission tomography -lrb- pet -rrb- . 
in patients _num1 and _num1 , the autopsy findings showed massive demyelination of the cerebral white matter with sparing of the u-fibers , compatible with the findings of childhood ald . 
oleic and erucic acids -lrb- lorenzos oil -rrb- were administered to patients _num1 and _num1 , but sufficient effectiveness was not obtained . 
the findings in this family suggest that delgag291 is part of the cause of japanese ald with phenotypic variations . 
moreover , although the scale of the study is limited , there is a possibility that pet can detect an insidious lesion which is undetectable by computed tomogram -lrb- _ds -rrb- or mri analysis , and that the higher level of tau reflects the process of neuronal degeneration in ald . 
lorenzos oil should be given in the early stage . . 
two frequent missense mutations in pendred syndrome . 
pendred syndrome is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by early childhood deafness and goiter . 
a century after its recognition as a syndrome by vaughan pendred , the disease gene -lrb- pds -rrb- was mapped to chromosome 7q22-q31 . 
_num1 and , recently , found to encode a putative sulfate transporter . 
we performed mutation analysis of the pds gene in patients from _num2 pendred families originating from seven countries and identified all mutations . 
the mutations include three single base deletions , one splice site mutation and _num2 missense mutations . 
one missense mutation -lrb- l236p -rrb- was found in a homozygous state in two consanguineous families and in a heterozygous state in five additional non-consanguineous families . 
another missense mutation -lrb- t416p -rrb- was found in a homozygous state in one family and in a heterozygous state in four families . 
pendred patients in three non-consanguineous families were shown to be compound heterozygotes for l236p and t416p . 
in total , one or both of these mutations were found in nine of the _num2 families analyzed . 
the identification of two frequent pds mutations will facilitate the molecular diagnosis of pendred syndrome . 
aspartylglucosaminuria among palestinian arabs . 
aspartylglucosaminuria -lrb- agu -rrb- is a rare disorder of glycoprotein metabolism caused by the deficiency of the lysosomal enzyme aspartylglucosaminidase -lrb- _ds -rrb- . 
agu is inherited as an autosomal recessive trait and occurs with a high frequency in finland because of a founder effect . 
while very few patients with agu have been reported from non-finnish origin , we diagnosed the disorder in _num1 patients originating from _num1 unrelated families , all palestinian arabs from the region of jerusalem . 
the clinical diagnosis of agu is often difficult , in particular early in the course of the disease , and most of the patients are diagnosed after the age of _num1 years . 
however , since these patients excrete early large amounts of aspartylglucosamine in urine , biochemical screening is easy by urine chromatography . . 
mutation spectrum and genotype-phenotype analyses in cowden disease and bannayan-zonana syndrome , two hamartoma syndromes with germline pten mutation . 
the tumour suppressor gene pten , which maps to 10q23 . 
_num1 and encodes a _num3 amino acid dual specificity phosphatase -lrb- protein tyrosine phosphatase ; ptpase -rrb- , was shown recently to play a broad role in human malignancy . 
somatic pten deletions and mutations were observed in sporadic breast , brain , prostate and kidney cancer cell lines and in several primary tumours such as endometrial carcinomas , malignant melanoma and thyroid tumours . 
in addition , pten was identified as the susceptibility gene for two hamartoma syndromes cowden disease -lrb- cd ; mim _num6 -rrb- and bannayan-zonana -lrb- bzs -rrb- or ruvalcaba-riley-smith syndrome -lrb- mim _num6 -rrb- . 
constitutive dna from _num2 cd families and seven bzs families was screened for germline pten mutations . 
pten mutations were identified in _num2 of _num2 -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- cd families , including missense and nonsense point mutations , deletions , insertions , a deletion / insertion and splice site mutations . 
these mutations were scattered over the entire length of pten , with the exception of the first , fourth and last exons . 
a hot spot for pten mutation in cd was identified in exon _num1 that contains the ptpase core motif , with _num2 of _num2 -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- cd mutations identified in this exon . 
seven of _num2 -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- were within the core motif , the majority -lrb- five of seven -rrb- of which were missense mutations , possibly pointing to the functional significance of this region . 
germline pten mutations were identified in four of seven -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- bzs families studied . 
interestingly , none of these mutations was observed in the ptpase core motif . 
it is also worthy of note that a single nonsense point mutation , r233x , was observed in the germline dna from two unrelated cd families and one bzs family . 
genotype-phenotype studies were not performed on this small group of bzs families . 
however , genotype-phenotype analysis inthe group of cd families revealed two possible associations worthy of follow-up in independent analyses . 
the first was an association noted in the group of cd families with breast disease . 
a correlation was observed between the presence / absence of a pten mutation and the type of breast involvement -lrb- unaffected versus benign versus malignant -rrb- . 
specifically and more directly , an association was also observed between the presence of a pten mutation and malignant breast disease . 
secondly , there appeared to be an interdependent association between mutations upstream and within the ptpase core motif , the core motif containing the majority of missense mutations , and the involvement of all major organ systems -lrb- central nervous system , thyroid , breast , skin and gastrointestinal tract -rrb- . 
however , these observations would need to be confirmed by studying a larger number of cd families . 
i1307k apc and hmlh1 mutations in a non-jewish family with hereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer . 
we describe a french canadian hereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer -lrb- hnpcc -rrb- kindred which carries a novel truncating mutation in hmlh1 . 
interestingly , the i1307k apc polymorphism , associated with an increased risk of colorectal cancer , is also present in this family . 
the i1307k polymorphism has previously only been identified in individuals of self-reported ashkenazi jewish origins . 
in addition , in this family , there appears to be no relationship between the i1307k polymorphism and the presence or absence of cancer . . 
wilms tumor _num1 and dax-1 modulate the orphan nuclear receptor sf-1 in sex-specific gene expression . 
products of steroidogenic factor _num1 -lrb- sf-1 -rrb- and wilms tumor _num1 -lrb- wt1 -rrb- genes are essential for mammalian gonadogenesis prior to sexual differentiation . 
in males , sf-1 participates in sexual development by regulating expression of the polypeptide hormone mullerian inhibiting substance -lrb- mis -rrb- . 
here , we show that wt1 - kts isoforms associate and synergize with sf-1 to promote mis expression . 
in contrast , wt1 missense mutations , associated with male pseudohermaphroditism in denys-drash syndrome , fail to synergize with sf-1 . 
additionally , the x-linked , candidate dosage-sensitive sex-reversal gene , dax-1 , antagonizes synergy between sf-1 and wt1 , most likely through a direct interaction with sf-1 . 
we propose that wt1 and dax-1 functionally oppose each other in testis development by modulating sf-1-mediated transactivation . . 
ethnic differences in the hfe codon _num3 -lrb- cys / tyr -rrb- polymorphism . 
recent studies have shown that hereditary hemochromatosis -lrb- hh -rrb- is likely to be caused by homozygosity for a cys282tyr mutation in the hfe gene located _num1 . 
_num1 mb telomeric to hla-a . 
population studies of this polymorphism are facilitated by the fact that the cys282tyr mutation creates a rsal restriction site . 
we have studied the codon _num3 -lrb- cys / tyr -rrb- polymorphism in different ethnic groups . 
in agreement with previous observations the tyr allele appeared to be rare or absent in asiatic -lrb- indian , chinese -rrb- populations . 
the highest allele frequency -lrb- _num1 . 
_num1 % -rrb- was found in swedes . 
saamis -lrb- _num1 % -rrb- and mordvinians -lrb- _num1 . 
_num1 % -rrb- had significantly lower frequencies of the tyr allele . 
comparisons with allele frequencies based on prevalence estimates of hh showed some disagreements with the rflp data , particularly in finns . 
the newly described hfe marker provides a new approach to the screening of hh as well as studies of the relationship between the hfe tyr allele and different disorders including cancer risk reversals in predictive testing for huntington disease . 
the first predictive testing for huntington disease -lrb- hd -rrb- was based on analysis of linked polymorphic dna markers to estimate the likelihood of inheriting the mutation for hd . 
limits to accuracy included recombination between the dna markers and the mutation , pedigree structure , and whether dna samples were available from family members . 
with direct tests for the hd mutation , we have assessed the accuracy of results obtained by linkage approaches when requested to do so by the test individuals . 
for six such individuals , there was significant disparity between the tests . 
three went from a decreased risk to an increased risk , while in another three the risk was decreased . 
knowledge of the potential reasons for these changes in results and impact of these risk reversals on both patients and the counseling team can assist in the development of strategies for the prevention and , where necessary , management of a risk reversal in any predictive testing program . . 
identification of three novel mutations and a high frequency of the arg778leu mutation in korean patients with wilson disease . 
four mutations -- r778l , a874v , l1083f , and 2304delc -- in the copper-transporting enzyme , p-type atpase -lrb- atp7b -rrb- , were identified in korean patients with wilson disease . 
arg778leu , the most frequently reported mutation of this enzyme , was found in six of eight unrelated patients studied , an allele frequency of _num2 . 
_num1 % , which is considerably higher than those in other asian populations . 
the novel single nucleotide deletion , 2304delc , was found in one patient . 
since a mutation at cdna nucleotide _num4 -lrb- 2302insc -rrb- had been previously described , this region of the atp7b gene may be susceptible to gene rearrangements causing wilson disease . 
determination of the genomic structure of the col4a4 gene and of novel mutations causing autosomal recessive alport syndrome . 
autosomal recessive alport syndrome is a progressive hematuric glomerulonephritis characterized by glomerular basement membrane abnormalities and associated with mutations in either the col4a3 or the col4a4 gene , which encode the alpha3 and alpha4 type iv collagen chains , respectively . 
to date , mutation screening in the two genes has been hampered by the lack of genomic structure information . 
we report here the complete characterization of the _num2 exons of the col4a4 gene , a comprehensive gene screen , and the subsequent detection of _num2 novel mutations in eight patients diagnosed with autosomal recessive alport syndrome . 
furthermore , we identified a glycine to alanine substitution in the collagenous domain that is apparently silent in the heterozygous carriers , in _num2 . 
_num1 % of all control individuals , and in one control individual homozygous for this glycine substitution . 
there has been no previous finding of a glycine substitution that is not associated with any obvious phenotype in homozygous individuals . 
a gene encoding a transmembrane protein is mutated in patients with diabetes mellitus and optic atrophy -lrb- wolfram syndrome -rrb- . 
wolfram syndrome -lrb- wfs ; omim _num6 -rrb- is an autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disorder defined by young-onset non-immune insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and progressive optic atrophy . 
linkage to markers on chromosome 4p was confirmed in five families . 
on the basis of meiotic recombinants and disease-associated haplotypes , the wfs gene was localized to a bac / p1 contig of less than _num3 kb . 
mutations in a novel gene -lrb- wfs1 -rrb- encoding a putative transmembrane protein were found in all affected individuals in six wfs families , and these mutations were associated with the disease phenotype . 
wfs1 appears to function in survival of islet beta-cells and neurons . . 
molecular defects leading to human complement component c6 deficiency in an african-american family . 
complement component c6 deficiency -lrb- c6d -rrb- was diagnosed in a 16-year-old african-american male with meningococcal meningitis . 
the patients father and two brothers also had c6d , but gave no history of meningitis or other neisserial infection . 
by using exon-specific polymerase chain reaction -lrb- pcr -rrb- / single-strand conformation polymorphism as a screening step and nucleotide sequencing of target exons , we determined that the proband was a compound heterozygote for two c6 gene mutations . 
the first , 1195delc located in exon _num1 , is a novel mutation , while the second , 1936delg in exon _num2 , has been described before to cause c6d in an unrelated african-american individual . 
both mutations result in premature termination codons and c6 null alleles . 
allele-specific pcr indicated that the probands two brothers also inherited the 1195delc mutation from their heterozygous mother and the 1936delg mutation from their homozygous father . . 
sperm dna analysis in a friedreich ataxia premutation carrier suggests both meiotic and mitotic expansion in the frda gene . 
friedreich ataxia is usually caused by an expansion of a _ds trinucleotide repeat in intron _num1 of the frda gene . 
occasionally , a fully expanded allele has been found to arise from a premutation of _num3 or less triplet repeats . 
we have examined the sperm dna of a premutation carrier . 
this mans leucocyte dna showed one normal allele and one allele of approximately _num3 repeats . 
his sperm showed an expanded allele in a tight range centering on a size of approximately _num3 trinucleotide repeats . 
his affected son has repeat sizes of _num4 and _num3 . 
these data suggest that expansion occurs in two stages , the first during meiosis followed by a second mitotic expansion . 
we also show that in all informative carrier father to affected child transmissions , with the notable exception of the premutation carrier , the expansion size decreases . . 
eye movement abnormalities correlate with genotype in autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type i . 
we compared horizontal eye movements -lrb- visually guided saccades , antisaccades , and smooth pursuit -rrb- in control subjects -lrb- n = _num2 -rrb- and patients with three forms of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxias type i spinocerebellar ataxias _num1 and _num1 -lrb- sca1 , n = _num2 ; sca2 , n = _num2 -rrb- and sca3 / machado-joseph disease -lrb- mjd -rrb- -lrb- n = _num2 -rrb- . 
in sca1 , saccade amplitude was significantly increased , resulting in hypermetria . 
the smooth pursuit gain was decreased . 
in sca2 , saccade velocity was markedly decreased . 
the percentage of errors in antisaccades was greatly increased and was significantly correlated with age at disease onset . 
in addition , a correlation between smooth pursuit gain and the number of trinucleotide repeats was found . 
in sca3 , gaze-evoked nystagmus was often present as was saccade hypometria and smooth pursuit gain was markedly decreased . 
three major criteria , saccade amplitude , saccade velocity , and presence of gaze-evoked nystagmus , permitted the correct assignment of _num2 % of the sca1 , _num2 % of the sca2 , and _num2 % of the patients with sca3 to their genetically confirmed patient group and , therefore , may help orient diagnoses of sca1 , sca2 , and sca3 at early clinical stages of the diseases . . 
clustering of missense mutations in the ataxia-telangiectasia gene in a sporadic t-cell leukaemia . 
ataxia-telangiectasia -lrb- a-t -rrb- is a recessive multi-system disorder caused by mutations in the atm gene at 11q22-q23 -lrb- ref . 
_num1 -rrb- . 
the risk of cancer , especially lymphoid neoplasias , is substantially elevated in a-t patients and has long been associated with chromosomal instability . 
by analysing tumour dna from patients with sporadic t-cell prolymphocytic leukaemia -lrb- t-pll -rrb- , a rare clonal malignancy with similarities to a mature t-cell leukaemia seen in a-t , we demonstrate a high frequency of atm mutations in t-pll . 
in marked contrast to the atm mutation pattern in a-t , the most frequent nucleotide changes in this leukaemia were missense mutations . 
these clustered in the region corresponding to the kinase domain , which is highly conserved in atm-related proteins in mouse , yeast and drosophila . 
the resulting amino-acid substitutions are predicted to interfere with atp binding or substrate recognition . 
two of seventeen mutated t-pll samples had a previously reported a-t allele . 
in contrast , no mutations were detected in the _an gene , suggesting that this tumour suppressor is not frequently altered in this leukaemia . 
occasional missense mutations in atm were also found in tumour dna from patients with b-cell non-hodgkins lymphomas -lrb- b-nhl -rrb- and a b-nhl cell line . 
the evidence of a significant proportion of loss-of-function mutations and a complete absence of the normal copy of atm in the majority of mutated tumours establishes somatic inactivation of this gene in the pathogenesis of sporadic t-pll and suggests that atm acts as a tumour suppressor . 
as constitutional dna was not available , a putative hereditary predisposition to t-pll will require further investigation . . 
identification of a novel nonsense mutation and a missense substitution in the vasopressin-neurophysin ii gene in two spanish kindreds with familial neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus . 
familial neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus -lrb- fndi -rrb- is an autosomal dominant disease caused by deficiency in the antidiuretic hormone arginine vasopressin -lrb- avp -rrb- encoded by the avp-neurophysin ii -lrb- avp-npii -rrb- gene on chromosome 20p13 . 
in this study , we analyzed two families with fndi using direct automated fluorescent , solid phase , single-stranded dna sequencing of pcr-amplified avp-npii dna . 
in one of the families , affected individuals presented a novel nonsense mutation in exon _num1 of the gene , consisting in a g to t transition at nucleotide _num4 , which produces a stop signal in codon _num2 -lrb- glu -rrb- of npii . 
the premature termination eliminates part of the c-terminal domain of npii , including a cysteine residue in position _num2 , which could be involved in the correct folding of the prohormone . 
in the second family , a g279a substitution at position -1 of the signal peptide was observed in all affected individuals . 
this missense mutation , which replaces ala with thr , is frequent among fndi patients and is thought to reduce the efficiency of cleavage by signal peptidases . . 
cloning of a novel member of the low-density lipoprotein receptor family . 
a gene encoding a novel transmembrane protein was identified by dna sequence analysis within the insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus -lrb- iddm -rrb- locus iddm4 on chromosome 11q13 . 
based on its chromosomal position , this gene is a candidate for conferring susceptibility to diabetes . 
the gene , termed low-density lipoprotein receptor related protein _num1 -lrb- lrp5 -rrb- , encodes a protein of _num4 amino acids that contains conserved modules which are characteristic of the low-density lipoprotein -lrb- ldl -rrb- receptor family . 
these modules include a putative signal peptide for protein export , four epidermal growth factor -lrb- egf -rrb- repeats with associated spacer domains , three ldl-receptor -lrb- ldlr -rrb- repeats , a single transmembrane spanning domain , and a cytoplasmic domain . 
the encoded protein has a unique organization of egf and ldlr repeats ; therefore , lrp5 likely represents a new category of the ldlr family . 
both human and mouse lrp5 cdnas have been isolated and the encoded mature proteins are _num2 % identical , indicating a high degree of evolutionary conservation . . 
atm germline mutations in classical ataxia-telangiectasia patients in the dutch population . 
germline mutations in the atm gene are responsible for the autosomal recessive disorder ataxia-telangiectasia -lrb- a-t -rrb- . 
in our study , we have determined the atm mutation spectrum in _num2 classical a-t patients , including some immigrant populations , as well as _num2 of dutch ethnic origin . 
both the protein truncation test -lrb- ptt -rrb- and the restriction endonuclease fingerprinting -lrb- ref -rrb- method were used and compared for their detection efficiency , identifying _num2 % and _num2 % of the mutations , respectively . 
most patients were found to be compound heterozygote . 
seventeen mutations were distinct , of which _num2 were not reported previously . 
mutations are small deletions or point mutations frequently affecting splice sites . 
moreover , a _num2 . 
7-kb genomic deletion of the _num1 end of the gene , most likely a result of recombination between two line elements , was identified . 
the most frequently found mutation , identified in three unrelated turkish a-t individuals , was previously described to be a turkish a-t founder mutation . 
the presence of a founder mutation among relatively small ethnic population groups in western europe could indicate a high carrier frequency in such communities . 
in patients of dutch ethnic origin , however , no significant founder effect could be identified . 
the observed genetic heterogeneity including the relative high percentage of splice-site mutations had no reflection on the phenotype . 
all patients manifested classical a-t and increased cellular radioresistant dna synthesis . 
diagnosis of hemochromatosis . 
if untreated , hemochromatosis can cause serious illness and early death , but the disease is still substantially under-diagnosed . 
the cornerstone of screening and case detection is the measurement of serum transferrin saturation and the serum ferritin level . 
once the diagnosis is suspected , physicians must use serum ferritin levels and hepatic iron stores on liver biopsy specimens to assess patients for the presence of iron overload . 
liver biopsy is also used to establish the presence or absence of cirrhosis , which can affect prognosis and management . 
a dna-based test for the hfe gene is commercially available , but its place in the diagnosis of hemochromatosis is still being evaluated . 
currently , the most useful role for this test is in the detection of hemochromatosis in the family members of patients with a proven case of the disease . 
it is crucial to diagnose hemochromatosis before hepatic cirrhosis develops because phlebotomy therapy can avert serious chronic disease and can even lead to normal life expectancy . . 
pax6 mutations reviewed . 
mutations in pax6 are responsible for human aniridia and have also been found in patients with peters anomaly , with congenital cataracts , with autosomal dominant keratitis , and with isolated foveal hypoplasia . 
no locus other than chromosome 11p13 has been implicated in aniridia , and pax6 is clearly the major , if not only , gene responsible . 
twenty-eight percent of identified pax6 mutations are c-t changes at cpg dinucleotides , _num2 % are splicing errors , and more than _num2 % are deletion or insertion events . 
there is a noticeably elevated level of mutation in the paired domain compared with the rest of the gene . 
increased mutation in the homeodomain is accounted for by the hypermutable cpg dinucleotide in codon _num3 . 
very nearly all mutations appear to cause loss of function of the mutant allele , and more than _num2 % of exonic substitutions result in nonsense codons . 
in a gene with such extraordinarily high sequence conservation throughout evolution , there are presumed undiscovered missense mutations , these are hypothesized to exist in as-yet unidentified phenotypes . . 
schwartz-jampel syndrome type _num1 and stuve-wiedemann syndrome : a case for `` lumping '' . 
recent studies demonstrated the existence of a genetically distinct , usually lethal form of the schwartz-jampel syndrome -lrb- sjs -rrb- of myotonia and skeletal dysplasia , which we called sjs type _num1 . 
this disorder is reminiscent of another rare condition , the stuve-wiedemann syndrome -lrb- sws -rrb- , which comprises campomelia at birth with skeletal dysplasia , contractures , and early death . 
to test for possible nosologic identity between these disorders , we reviewed the literature and obtained a follow-up of the only two surviving patients , one with sjs type _num1 at age _num2 years and another with sws at age _num1 years . 
patients reported as having either neonatal sjs or sws presented a combination of a severe , prenatal-onset neuromuscular disorder -lrb- with congenital joint contractures , respiratory and feeding difficulties , tendency to hyperthermia , and frequent death in infancy -rrb- with a distinct campomelic-metaphyseal skeletal dysplasia . 
the similarity of the clinical and radiographic findings is so extensive that these disorders appear to be a single entity . 
the follow-up observation of an identical and unique pattern of progressive bone dysplasia in the two patients -lrb- one with sjs type _num1 , one with sws -rrb- surviving beyond infancy adds to the evidence in favor of identity . 
the hypothesis that sws and sjs type _num1 are the same disorder should be testable by molecular methods . . 
the 185delag brca1 mutation originated before the dispersion of jews in the diaspora and is not limited to ashkenazim . 
the 185delag mutation in brca1 is detected in ashkenazi jews both in familial breast and ovarian cancer and in the general population . 
all tested ashkenazi mutation carriers share the same allelic pattern at the brca1 locus . 
our previous study showed that this ashkenazi mutation also occurs in iraqi jews with a similar allelic pattern . 
we extended our analysis to other non-ashkenazi subsets _num3 of moroccan origin , _num3 yemenites and _num3 iranian jews . 
heteroduplex analysis complemented by direct dna sequencing of abnormally migrating bands were employed . 
four of moroccan origin -lrb- _num1 . 
_num1 % -rrb- and none of the yemenites or iranians was a carrier of the 185delag mutation . 
brca1 allelic patterns were determined for four of these individuals and for _num2 additional non-ashkenazi 185delag mutation carriers who had breast / ovarian cancer . 
six non-ashkenazi individuals shared the common ashkenazi haplotype , four had a closely related pattern , and the rest -lrb- n = _num1 -rrb- displayed a distinct brca1 allelic pattern . 
we conclude that the 185delag brca1 mutation occurs in some non-ashkenazi populations at rates comparable with that of ashkenazim . 
the majority of jewish 185delag mutation carriers have a common allelic pattern , supporting the founder effect notion , but dating the mutations origin to an earlier date than currently estimated . 
however , the different allelic pattern at the brca1 locus even in some jewish mutation carriers , might suggest that the mutation arose independently . . 
the rb1 gene mutation in a child with ectopic intracranial retinoblastoma . 
the rb1 gene mutation was investigated in a child with ectopic intracranial retinoblastoma using dna obtained from both the pineal and retinal tumours of the patient . 
a nonsense mutation in exon _num2 -lrb- codon _num3 -rrb- of the rb1 gene was found to be present homozygously in both the retinal and the pineal tumours . 
the same mutation was present heterozygously in the dna from the constitutional cells of the patient , proving it to be of germline origin . 
the initial mutation was shown to have occurred in the paternally derived rb1 allele . 
the mutation is in an area of the gene that encodes the protein-binding region known as the pocket region and has been detected in other cases of retinoblastoma . . 
genomic structure of the human congenital chloride diarrhea -lrb- cld -rrb- gene . 
congenital chloride diarrhea -lrb- cld -rrb- is caused by mutations in a gene which encodes an intestinal anion transporter . 
we report here the complete genomic organization of the human cld gene which spans approximately 39kb , and comprises _num2 exons . 
all exon / intron boundaries conform to the gt / ag rule . 
an analysis of the putative promoter region sequence shows a putative _ds box and predicts multiple transcription factor binding sites . 
the genomic structure was determined using dna from several sources including multiple large-insert libaries and genomic dna from finnish cld patients and controls . 
exon-specific primers developed in this study will facilitate mutation screening studies of patients with the disease . 
genomic sequencing of a bac clone h_rg364p16 revealed the presence of another , highly homologous gene _num1 of the cld gene , with a similar genomic structure , recently identified as the pendred syndrome gene -lrb- pds -rrb- . . 
mutation analysis of ube3a in angelman syndrome patients . 
angelman syndrome -lrb- as -rrb- is caused by chromosome 15q11-q13 deletions of maternal origin , by paternal uniparental disomy -lrb- upd -rrb- _num2 , by imprinting defects , and by mutations in the ube3a gene . 
ube3a encodes a ubiquitin-protein ligase and shows brain-specific imprinting . 
here we describe ube3a coding-region mutations detected by sscp analysis in _num2 as individuals or families . 
two identical de novo 5-bp duplications in exon _num2 were found . 
among the other _num2 unique mutations , _num1 were small deletions or insertions predicted to cause frameshifts , _num1 was a mutation to a stop codon , _num1 was a missense mutation , and _num1 was predicted to cause insertion of an isoleucine in the hect domain of the ube3a protein , which functions in e2 binding and ubiquitin transfer . 
eight of the cases were familial , and five were sporadic . 
in two familial cases and one sporadic case , mosaicism for ube3a mutations was detected in the mother of three as sons , in the maternal grandfather of two as first cousins , and in the mother of an as daughter . 
the frequencies with which we detected mutations were _num1 -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- of _num2 in sporadic cases and _num1 -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- of _num2 in familial cases . . 
autosomal dominant neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus associated with a missense mutation encoding gly23 -- > val in neurophysin ii . 
autosomal dominant neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus -lrb- adndi -rrb- is an inherited disease caused by progressive degeneration of the magnocellular neurons of the hypothalamus leading to decreased ability to produce the hormone arginine vasopressin -lrb- avp -rrb- . 
affected individuals are not symptomatic at birth , but usually develop diabetes insipidus at 1-6 yr of age . 
the genetic locus of the disease is the avp-neurophysin ii -lrb- npii -rrb- gene , and mutations that cause adndi have been found in both the signal peptide of the prepro-avp-npii precursor and within npii itself . 
an affected girl who presented at _num1 months of age and her similarly affected younger brother and father were all found to have a novel missense mutation -lrb- _an -- > t -rrb- encoding the amino acid substitution gly23 -- > val within npii . 
the mutation was confirmed by restriction endonuclease analysis . 
a t1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging of the fathers pituitary gland demonstrates an attenuated posterior pituitary bright spot . 
this mutation may be valuable for developing models of dominantly inherited neurodegeneration , as the early age of onset of symptoms suggests that this mutation may be particularly deleterious to the magnocellular neuron . . 
reversal of severe hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and excellent neuropsychologic outcome in very-long-chain acyl-coenzyme a dehydrogenase deficiency . 
very-long-chain acyl-coenzyme a dehydrogenase -lrb- vlcad -rrb- deficiency is a disorder of fatty acid beta oxidation that reportedly has high rates of morbidity and mortality . 
we describe the outcome of a 5-year-old girl with vlcad deficiency who was first seen at _num1 months of age with severe hypertrophic cardiomyopathy , hepatomegaly , encephalopathy , and hypotonia . 
biochemical studies indicated vlcad deficiency caused by a stable yet inactive enzyme . 
molecular genetic analysis of her vlcad gene revealed a t1372c -lrb- f458l -rrb- missense mutation and a _num4 _ds _num4 splice site mutation . 
after initial treatment with intravenous glucose and carnitine , the patient has thrived on a low-fat diet supplemented with medium-chain triglyceride oil and carnitine and avoidance of fasting . 
her ventricular hypertrophy resolved significantly over _num1 year , and cognitively , she is in the superior range for age . 
clinical recognition of vlcad deficiency is important because it is one of the few directly treatable causes of cardiomyopathy in children . . 
mutations of the atm gene detected in japanese ataxia-telangiectasia patients : possible preponderance of the two founder mutations 4612del165 and 7883del5 . 
the atm -lrb- a-t , mutated -rrb- gene on human chromosome 11q22 . 
_num1 has recently been identified as the gene responsible for the human recessive disease ataxia-telangiectasia -lrb- a-t -rrb- . 
in order to define the types of disease-causing atm mutations in japanese a-t patients as well as to look for possible mutational hotspots , reverse-transcribed rna derived from ten patients belonging to eight unrelated japanese a-t families was analyzed for mutations by the restriction endonuclease fingerprinting method . 
as has been reported by others , mutations that lead to exon skipping or premature protein truncation were also predominant in our mutants . 
six different mutations were identified on _num2 of the _num2 alleles examined . 
four were deletions involving a loss of a single exon exon _num1 , exon _num2 , exon _num2 or exon _num2 . 
the others were minute deletions , 4649dela in exon _num2 and 7883del5 in exon _num2 . 
the mutations 4612del165 and 7883del5 were found in more than two unrelated families ; _num2 % -lrb- _num1 of _num2 -rrb- of the mutant alleles had one of the two mutations . 
the 4612del165 mutations in three different families were all ascribed to the same t -- > a substitution at the splice donor site in intron _num2 . 
microsatellite genotyping around the atm locus also indicated that a common haplotype was shared by the mutant alleles in both mutations . 
this suggests that these two founder mutations may be predominant among japanese atm mutant alleles . 
down-regulation of transmembrane carbonic anhydrases in renal cell carcinoma cell lines by wild-type von hippel-lindau transgenes . 
to discover genes involved in von hippel-lindau -lrb- vhl -rrb- - mediated carcinogenesis , we used renal cell carcinoma cell lines stably transfected with wild-type vhl-expressing transgenes . 
large-scale rna differential display technology applied to these cell lines identified several differentially expressed genes , including an alpha carbonic anhydrase gene , termed ca12 . 
the deduced protein sequence was classified as a one-pass transmembrane _ds possessing an apparently intact catalytic domain in the extracellular _ds module . 
reintroduced wild-type vhl strongly inhibited the overexpression of the ca12 gene in the parental renal cell carcinoma cell lines . 
similar results were obtained with ca9 , encoding another transmembrane _ds with an intact catalytic domain . 
although both domains of the vhl protein contribute to regulation of ca12 expression , the elongin binding domain alone could effectively regulate ca9 expression . 
we mapped ca12 and ca9 loci to chromosome bands 15q22 and 17q21 . 
_num1 respectively , regions prone to amplification in some human cancers . 
additional experiments are needed to define the role of _ds ix and _ds xii enzymes in the regulation of ph in the extracellular microenvironment and its potential impact on cancer cell growth . 
a novel common missense mutation g301c in the n-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfate sulfatase gene in mucopolysaccharidosis iva . 
mucopolysaccharidosis iva -lrb- mps iva -rrb- is an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder caused by a genetic defect in n-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfate sulfatase -lrb- galns -rrb- . 
in previous studies , we have found two common mutations in caucasians and japanese , respectively . 
to characterize the mutational spectrum in various ethnic groups , mutations in the galns gene in colombian mps iva patients were investigated , and genetic backgrounds were extensively analyzed to identify racial origin , based on mitochondrial dna -lrb- mtdna -rrb- lineages . 
three novel missense mutations never identified previously in other populations and found in _num2 out of _num2 colombian mps iva unrelated alleles account for _num2 . 
_num1 % of the alleles in this study . 
the g301c and s162f mutations account for _num2 . 
_num1 % and _num2 . 
_num1 % of mutations , respectively , whereas the remaining f69v is limited to a single allele . 
the skewed prevalence of g301c in only colombian patients and haplotype analysis by restriction fragment length polymorphisms in the galns gene suggest that g301c originated from a common ancestor . 
investigation of the genetic background by means of mtdna lineages indicate that all our patients are probably of native american descent w474c amino acid substitution affects early processing of the alpha-subunit of beta-hexosaminidase a and is associated with subacute g -lrb- m2 -rrb- gangliosidosis . 
mutations in the hexa gene , encoding the alpha-subunit of beta-hexosaminidase a -lrb- hex a -rrb- , that abolish hex a enzyme activity cause tay-sachs disease -lrb- tsd -rrb- , the fatal infantile form of g -lrb- m2 -rrb- gangliosidosis , type _num1 . 
less severe , subacute -lrb- juvenile-onset -rrb- and chronic -lrb- adult-onset -rrb- variants are characterized by a broad spectrum of clinical manifestations and are associated with residual levels of hex a enzyme activity . 
we identified a _num4 g -- > c -lrb- amino acid w474c -rrb- substitution in the first position of exon _num2 of hexa of a non-jewish proband who manifested a subacute variant of g -lrb- m2 -rrb- gangliosidosis . 
on the second maternally inherited allele , we identified the common infantile disease-causing 4-bp insertion , + _ds _num4 , in exon _num2 . 
pulse-chase analysis using proband fibroblasts revealed that the w474c-containing alpha-subunit precursor was normally synthesized , but not phosphorylated or secreted , and the mature lysosomal alpha-subunit was not detected . 
when the w474c-containing alpha-subunit was transiently co-expressed with the beta-subunit to produce hex a -lrb- alphabeta -rrb- in cos-7 cells , the mature alpha-subunit was present , but its level was much lower than that from normal alpha-subunit transfections , although higher than in those cells transfected with an alpha-subunit associated with infantile tsd . 
furthermore , the precursor level of the w474c alpha-subunit was found to accumulate in comparison to the normal alpha-subunit precursor levels . 
we conclude that the _num4 g -- > c mutation is the cause of hex a enzyme deficiency in the proband . 
the resulting w474c substitution clearly interferes with alpha-subunit processing , but because the base substitution falls at the first position of exon _num2 , aberrant splicing may also contribute to hex a deficiency in this proband . . 
myotonic dystrophy protein kinase is involved in the modulation of the ca2 + homeostasis in skeletal muscle cells . 
myotonic dystrophy -lrb- dm -rrb- , the most prevalent muscular disorder in adults , is caused by -lrb- _ds -rrb- n-repeat expansion in a gene encoding a protein kinase -lrb- dm protein kinase ; dmpk -rrb- and involves changes in cytoarchitecture and ion homeostasis . 
to obtain clues to the normal biological role of dmpk in cellular ion homeostasis , we have compared the resting -lsb- ca2 + -rsb- i , the amplitude and shape of depolarization-induced ca2 + transients , and the content of atp-driven ion pumps in cultured skeletal muscle cells of wild-type and dmpk -lsb- - / - -rsb- knockout mice . 
in vitro-differentiated dmpk -lsb- - / - -rsb- myotubes exhibit a higher resting -lsb- ca2 + -rsb- i than do wild-type myotubes because of an altered open probability of voltage-dependent l-type ca2 + and na + channels . 
the mutant myotubes exhibit smaller and slower ca2 + responses upon triggering by acetylcholine or high external k + . 
in addition , we observed that these ca2 + transients partially result from an influx of extracellular ca2 + through the l-type ca2 + channel . 
neither the content nor the activity of na + / k + atpase and sarcoplasmic reticulum ca2 + - atpase are affected by dmpk absence . 
in conclusion , our data suggest that dmpk is involved in modulating the initial events of excitation-contraction coupling in skeletal muscle . . 
insertional mutation by transposable element , l1 , in the dmd gene results in x-linked dilated cardiomyopathy . 
x-linked dilated cardiomyopathy -lrb- xldcm -rrb- is a clinical phenotype of dystrophinopathy which is characterized by preferential myocardial involvement without any overt clinical signs of skeletal myopathy . 
to date , several mutations in the duchenne muscular dystrophy gene , dmd , have been identified in patients with xldcm , but a pathogenic correlation of these cardiospecific mutations in dmd with the xldcm phenotype has remained to be elucidated . 
we report here the identification of a unique de novo l1 insertion in the muscle exon _num1 in dmd in three xldcm patients from two unrelated japanese families . 
the insertion was a 5-truncated form of human l1 inversely integrated in the 5-untranslated region in the muscle exon _num1 , which affected the transcription or the stability of the muscle form of dystrophin transcripts but not that of the brain or purkinje cell form , probably due to its unique site of integration . 
we speculate that this insertion of an l1 sequence in dmd is responsible for some of the population of japanese patients with xldcm . . 
genetic heterogeneity of saethre-chotzen syndrome , due to twist and fgfr mutations . 
thirty-two unrelated patients with features of saethre-chotzen syndrome , a common autosomal dominant condition of craniosynostosis and limb anomalies , were screened for mutations in twist , fgfr2 , and fgfr3 . 
nine novel and three recurrent twist mutations were found in _num2 families . 
seven families were found to have the fgfr3 p250r mutation , and one individual was found to have an fgfr2 vv269-270 deletion . 
to date , our detection rate for twist or fgfr mutations is _num2 % in our saethre-chotzen syndrome patients , including our five patients elsewhere reported with twist mutations . 
more than _num2 different twist mutations are now known in the literature . 
the most common phenotypic features , present in more than a third of our patients with twist mutations , are coronal synostosis , brachycephaly , low frontal hairline , facial asymmetry , ptosis , hypertelorism , broad great toes , and clinodactyly . 
significant intra - and interfamilial phenotypic variability is present for either twist mutations or fgfr mutations . 
the overlap in clinical features and the presence , in the same genes , of mutations for more than one craniosynostotic condition such as saethre-chotzen , crouzon , and pfeiffer syndromes support the hypothesis that twist and fgfrs are components of the same molecular pathway involved in the modulation of craniofacial and limb development in humans . . 
frequent inactivation of pten / mmac1 in primary prostate cancer . 
sporadic prostate carcinoma is the most common male cancer in the western world , yet many of the major genetic events involved in the progression of this often fatal cancer remain to be elucidated . 
numerous cytogenetic and allelotype studies have reported frequent loss of heterozygosity on chromosomal arm 10q in sporadic prostate cancer . 
deletion mapping studies have unambiguously identified a region of chromosome 10q23 to be the minimal area of loss . 
a new tumor suppressor gene , pten / mmac1 , was isolated recently at this region of chromosome 10q23 and found to be inactivated by mutation in three prostate cancer cell lines . 
we screened _num2 prostate tumors by microsatellite analysis and found chromosome 10q23 to be deleted in _num2 cases . 
we then proceeded with sequence analysis of the entire pten / mmac1 coding region and tested for homozygous deletion with new intragenic markers in these _num2 cases with 10q23 loss of heterozygosity . 
the identification of the second mutational event in _num2 -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- tumors establishes pten / mmac1 as a main inactivation target of 10q loss in sporadic prostate cancer . . 
molecular heterogeneity in mucopolysaccharidosis iva in australia and northern ireland : nine novel mutations including t312s , a common allele that confers a mild phenotype . 
mucopolysaccharidosis iva -lrb- mps iva -rrb- is an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder caused by a genetic defect in n-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfate sulfatase -lrb- galns -rrb- . 
previous studies of patients from a british-irish population showed that the i113f mutation is the most common single mutation among mps iva patients and produces a severe clinical phenotype . 
we studied mutations in the galns gene from _num2 additional mps iva patients -lrb- _num2 from australia , _num1 from northern ireland -rrb- , with various clinical phenotypes -lrb- severe , _num2 cases ; intermediate , _num1 cases ; mild , _num1 cases -rrb- . 
we found two common mutations that together accounted for _num2 % of the _num2 unrelated alleles in these patients . 
one is the t312s mutation , a novel mutation found exclusively in milder patients . 
the other is the previously described i113f that produces a severe phenotype . 
the i113f and t312s mutations accounted for _num1 -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- and _num1 -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- of _num2 unrelated alleles , respectively . 
the relatively high residual galns activity seen when the t312s mutant cdna is overexpressed in mutant cells provides an explanation for the mild phenotype in patients with this mutation . 
the distribution and relative frequencies of the i113f and t312s mutations in australia corresponded to those observed in northern ireland and are unique to these two populations , suggesting that both mutations were probably introduced to australia by irish migrants during the 19th century . 
haplotype analysis using _num1 rflps provides additional data that the i113f mutation originated from a common ancestor . 
the other _num1 novel mutations identified in these _num2 patients were each limited to a single family . 
these data provide further evidence for extensive allelic heterogeneity in mps iva in british-irish patients and provide evidence for their transmission to australia by british-irish migrants . . 
further evidence for a major ancient mutation underlying myotonic dystrophy from linkage disequilibrium studies in the japanese population . 
the myotonic dystrophy -lrb- dm -rrb- mutation is an unstable -lrb- _ds -rrb- n repeat , present at a copy number of 5-37 repeats on normal chromosomes but amplified to 50-3000 copies on dm chromosomes . 
previous findings in caucasian populations of a dm founder chromosome raise a question about the molecular events involved in the expansion mutation . 
to investigate whether a founder chromosome for the dm mutation exists in the japanese population , we genotyped families using polymorphic markers near the -lrb- _ds -rrb- n repeat region and constructed haplotypes . 
six different haplotypes were found and dm alleles were always haplotype a. to find an origin of the -lrb- _ds -rrb- n repeat mutation and to investigate the mechanism of the expansion mutation in the japanese population we have studied _num2 japanese dm families comprising _num3 affected and _num3 unaffected members . 
the results suggest that a few common ancestral mutations in both caucasian and japanese populations have originated by expansion of an ancestral n = _num1 repeat to n = 19-37 copies . 
these data support multistep models of triplet repeat expansion that have been proposed for both dm and friedreichs ataxia . . 
prevalence of _an and cdk4 germline mutations in _num2 melanoma prone families in france . 
the french familial melanoma study group . 
germline mutations in the _an and cdk4 genes have been reported in a subset of melanoma pedigrees , but their prevalence is not well known . 
we searched for such germline mutations in _num2 french melanoma prone families selected according to two major criteria families with at least three affected members -lrb- n = _num2 -rrb- or families with two affected members , one of them affected before the age of _num2 -lrb- n = _num2 -rrb- , and one additional minor criterion . 
sixteen different _an germline mutations were found in _num2 families , while one germline mutation , arg24his , was detected in the cdk4 gene . 
the frequency of _an gene mutation in our sample -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- is among the highest rates yet reported and the cdk4 mutation is the second mutation detected in this gene worldwide . 
in summary , our results show frequent involvement of the _an gene in familial melanoma and confirm the role of the cdk4 gene as a melanoma predisposing gene . . 
systematic analysis of coproporphyrinogen oxidase gene defects in hereditary coproporphyria and mutation update . 
hereditary coproporphyria -lrb- hc -rrb- is an acute hepatic porphyria with autosomal dominant inheritance caused by deficient activity of coproporphyrinogen iii oxidase -lrb- cpo -rrb- . 
clinical manifestations of the disease are characterized by acute attacks of neurological dysfunction often precipitated by drugs , fasting , cyclical hormonal changes , or infectious diseases . 
skin photosensitivity may also be present . 
the seven exons , the exon / intron boundaries and part of _num1 noncoding sequence of the cpo gene were systematically analyzed by an exon-by-exon denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis -lrb- dgge -rrb- strategy followed by direct sequencing in seven unrelated heterozygous hc patients from france , holland , and czech republic . 
seven novel mutations and two new polymorphisms were detected . 
among these mutations two are missense -lrb- g197w , w427r -rrb- , two are nonsense -lrb- q306x , q385x -rrb- , two are small deletions -lrb- 662de14bp ; 1168del3bp removing a glycine at position _num3 -rrb- , and one is a splicing mutation -lrb- ivs1-15c -- > g -rrb- which creates a new acceptor splice site . 
the pathological significance of the point mutations g197w , w427r , and the in-frame deletion 390delgly were assessed by their respective expression in a prokaryotic system using site-directed mutagenesis . 
these mutations resulted in the absence or a dramatic decrease of cpo activity . 
the two polymorphisms were localized in noncoding part of the gene _num1 -rrb- a c / g polymorphism in the promotor region , _num3 bp upstream from the transcriptional initiation site -lrb- -142 c / g -rrb- , and _num1 -rrb- a _num1 bp deletion polymorphism in the _num1 noncoding part of the cpo gene , _num3 bp downstream of the last base of the normal termination codon -lrb- + _num3 delattctt -rrb- . 
five intragenic dimorphisms are now well characterized and the high degree of allelic heterogeneity in hc is demonstrated with seven new different mutations making a total of nineteen cpo gene defects reported so far . . 
the haptoglobin-gene deletion responsible for anhaptoglobinemia . 
we have found an allelic deletion of the haptoglobin -lrb- hp -rrb- gene from an individual with anhaptoglobinemia . 
the hp gene cluster consists of coding regions of the alpha chain and beta chain of the haptoglobin gene -lrb- hp -rrb- and of the alpha chain and beta chain of the haptoglobin-related gene -lrb- hpr -rrb- , in tandem from the _num1 side . 
southern blot and pcr analyses have indicated that the individual with anhaptoglobinemia was homozygous for the gene deletion and that the gene deletion was included at least from the promoter region of hp to hpr alpha but not to hpr beta -lrb- hpdel -rrb- . 
in addition , we found seven individuals with hypohaptoglobinemia in three families , and the genotypes of six of the seven individuals were found to be hp2 / hpdel . 
the phenotypes and genotypes in one of these three families showed the father to be hypohaptoglobinemic -lrb- hp2 -rrb- and hp2 / hpdel , the mother to be hp2-1 and hp1 / hp2 , one of the two children to be hypohaptoglobinemic -lrb- hp2 -rrb- and hp2 / hpdel , and the other child to be hp1 and hp1 / hpdel , showing an anomalous inheritance of hp phenotypes in the child with hp1 . 
the hp2 / hpdel individuals had an extremely low level of hp -lrb- mean + / - sd = _num1 . 
_num3 + / -0 . 
_num3 mg / ml ; n = _num1 -rrb- , compared with the level -lrb- _num1 . 
_num2 + / -1 . 
_num2 mg / ml -rrb- obtained from _num2 healthy volunteers having phenotype hp2 , whereas the serum hp level of an individual with hp1 / hpdel was _num1 . 
_num2 mg / ml , which was approximately half the level of hp in control sera from the hp1 phenotype -lrb- _num1 . 
_num2 + / -0 . 
_num2 mg / ml ; n = _num1 -rrb- , showing a gene-dosage effect . 
the other allele -lrb- hp2 -rrb- of individuals with hp2 / hpdel was found to have , in all exons , no mutation , by dna sequencing . 
on the basis of the present study , the mechanism of anhaptoglobinemia and the mechanism of anomalous inheritance of hp phenotypes were well explained . 
however , the mechanism of hypohaptoglobinemia remains unknown genotype-phenotype correlations in attenuated adenomatous polyposis coli . 
germ-line mutations of the tumor suppressor apc are implicated in attenuated adenomatous polyposis coli -lrb- aapc -rrb- , a variant of familial adenomatous polyposis -lrb- fap -rrb- . 
aapc is recognized by the occurrence of < _num3 colonic adenomas and a later onset of colorectal cancer -lrb- age > _num2 years -rrb- . 
the aim of this study was to assess genotype-phenotype correlations in aapc families . 
by protein-truncation test -lrb- ptt -rrb- assay , the entire coding region of the apc gene was screened in affected individuals from _num2 aapc kindreds , and their phenotypic differences were examined . 
five novel germ-line apc mutations were identified in seven kindreds . 
mutations were located in three different regions of the apc gene -lrb- _num1 -rrb- at the _num1 end spanning exons _num1 and _num1 , -lrb- _num1 -rrb- within exon _num1 , and -lrb- _num1 -rrb- at the _num1 distal end of the gene . 
variability in the number of colorectal adenomas was most apparent in individuals with mutations in region _num1 , and upper-gastrointestinal manifestations were more severe in them . 
in individuals with mutations in either region _num1 or region _num1 , the average number of adenomas tended to be lower than those in individuals with mutations in region _num1 , although age at diagnosis was similar . 
in all aapc kindreds , a predominance of right-sided colorectal adenomas and rectal polyp sparing was observed . 
no desmoid tumors were found in these kindreds . 
our data suggest that , in aapc families , the location of the apc mutation may partially predict specific phenotypic expression . 
this should help in the design of tailored clinical-management protocols in this subset of fap patients . . 
the apc variants i1307k and e1317q are associated with colorectal tumors , but not always with a family history . 
classical familial adenomatous polyposis -lrb- fap -rrb- is a high-penetrance autosomal dominant disease that predisposes to hundreds or thousands of colorectal adenomas and carcinoma and that results from truncating mutations in the apc gene . 
a variant of fap is attenuated adenomatous polyposis coli , which results from germ-line mutations in the _num1 and _num1 regions of the apc gene . 
attenuated adenomatous polyposis coli patients have '' multiple '' colorectal adenomas -lrb- typically fewer than _num3 -rrb- without the florid phenotype of classical fap . 
another group of patients with multiple adenomas has no mutations in the apc gene , and their phenotype probably results from variation at a locus , or loci , elsewhere in the genome . 
recently , however , a missense variant of apc -lrb- i1307k -rrb- was described that confers an increased risk of colorectal tumors , including multiple adenomas , in ashkenazim . 
we have studied a set of _num3 patients with multiple colorectal adenomas and / or carcinoma and analyzed codons 1263-1377 -lrb- exon 15g -rrb- of the apc gene for germ-line variants . 
three patients with the i1307k allele were detected , each of ashkenazi descent . 
four patients had a germ-line e1317q missense variant of apc that was not present in controls ; one of these individuals had an unusually large number of metaplastic polyps of the colorectum . 
there is increasing evidence that there exist germ-line variants of the apc gene that predispose to the development of multiple colorectal adenomas and carcinoma , but without the florid phenotype of classical fap , and possibly with importance for colorectal cancer risk in the general population . . 
the hemochromatosis _num3 g -- > a and _num3 c -- > g mutations : prevalence in non-caucasian populations . 
hemochromatosis , the inherited disorder of iron metabolism , leads , if untreated , to progressive iron overload and premature death . 
the hemochromatosis gene , hfe , recently has been identified , and characterization of this gene has shown that it contains two mutations that result in amino acid substitutions-cdna nucleotides _num3 g -- > a -lrb- c282y -rrb- and _num3 c -- > g -lrb- h63d -rrb- . 
although hemochromatosis is common in caucasians , affecting > = 1 / 300 individuals of northern european origin , it has not been recognized in other populations . 
the present study used pcr and restriction-enzyme digestion to analyze the frequency of the _num3 g -- > a and _num3 c -- > g mutations in hla-typed samples from non-caucasian populations , comprising australian aboriginal , chinese , and pacific islanders . 
results showed that the _num3 g -- > a mutation was present in these populations -lrb- allele frequency _num1 . 
_num2 % -rrb- , and , furthermore , it was always seen in conjunction with hla haplotypes common in caucasians , suggesting that _num3 g -- > a may have been introduced into these populations by caucasian admixture . 
_num3 c -- > g was present at an allele frequency of _num1 . 
_num2 % in the two populations analyzed -lrb- australian aboriginal and chinese -rrb- . 
in the australian aboriginal samples , _num3 c -- > g was found to be associated with hla haplotypes common in caucasians , suggesting that it was introduced by recent admixture . 
in the chinese samples analyzed , _num3 c -- > g was present in association with a wide variety of hla haplotypes , showing this mutation to be widespread and likely to predate the more genetically restricted _num3 g -- > a mutation . 
brca1 required for transcription-coupled repair of oxidative dna damage . 
the breast and ovarian cancer susceptibility gene brca1 encodes a zinc finger protein of unknown function . 
association of the brca1 protein with the dna repair protein rad51 and changes in the phosphorylation and cellular localization of the protein after exposure to dna-damaging agents are consistent with a role for brca1 in dna repair . 
here , it is shown that mouse embryonic stem cells deficient in brca1 are defective in the ability to carry out transcription-coupled repair of oxidative dna damage , and are hypersensitive to ionizing radiation and hydrogen peroxide . 
these results suggest that brca1 participates , directly or indirectly , in transcription-coupled repair of oxidative dna damage . . 
a mouse model of severe von willebrand disease : defects in hemostasis and thrombosis . 
von willebrand factor -lrb- vwf -rrb- deficiency causes severe von willebrand disease in humans . 
we generated a mouse model for this disease by using gene targeting . 
vwf-deficient mice appeared normal at birth ; they were viable and fertile . 
neither vwf nor vwf propolypeptide -lrb- von willebrand antigen ii -rrb- were detectable in plasma , platelets , or endothelial cells of the homozygous mutant mice . 
the mutant mice exhibited defects in hemostasis with a highly prolonged bleeding time and spontaneous bleeding events in approximately _num2 % of neonates . 
as in the human disease , the factor viii level in these mice was reduced strongly as a result of the lack of protection provided by vwf . 
defective thrombosis in mutant mice was also evident in an in vivo model of vascular injury . 
in this model , the exteriorized mesentery was superfused with ferric chloride and the accumulation of fluorescently labeled platelets was observed by intravital microscopy . 
we conclude that these mice very closely mimic severe human von willebrand disease and will be very useful for investigating the role of vwf in normal physiology and in disease models . . 
the von hippel-lindau tumor suppressor gene is required for cell cycle exit upon serum withdrawal . 
the inactivation of the von hippel-lindau -lrb- vhl -rrb- tumor suppressor gene predisposes affected individuals to the human vhl cancer syndrome and is associated with sporadic renal cell carcinomas -lrb- rcc -rrb- and brain hemangioblastomas . 
vhl-negative 786-0 rcc cells are tumorigenic in nude mice which is suppressed by the reintroduction of vhl . 
remarkably , this occurs without affecting the growth rate and cell cycle profile of these cells in culture . 
the 786-0 cell line , like many cancer cells , fails to exit the cell cycle upon serum withdrawal . 
here , it is shown that reintroduction of the wild-type vhl gene restores the ability of vhl-negative rcc cancer cells to exit the cell cycle and enter g0 / quiescence in low serum . 
both vhl-positive and vhl-negative rcc cells exit the cell cycle by contact inhibition . 
the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor , _an , accumulates upon serum withdrawal , only in the presence of vhl , as a result of the stabilization of the protein . 
we propose that the loss of wild-type vhl gene results in a specific cellular defect in serum-dependent growth control , which may initiate tumor formation . 
this is corrected by the reintroduction of wild-type vhl , implicating vhl as the first tumor suppressor involved in the regulation of cell cycle exit , which is consistent with its gatekeeper function in the kidney . . 
nonsense mutation in exon _num1 of human complement c9 gene is the major cause of japanese complement c9 deficiency . 
deficiency of the ninth component of human complement -lrb- c9 -rrb- is the most common complement deficiency in japan but is rare in other countries . 
we studied the molecular basis of c9 deficiency in four japanese c9-deficient patients who had suffered from meningococcal meningitis . 
direct sequencing of amplified c9 cdna and dna revealed a nonsense substitution -lrb- _ds -- > _ds -rrb- at codon _num2 in exon _num1 in the four c9-deficient individuals . 
an allele-specific polymerase chain reaction system designed to detect exclusively only one of the normal and mutant alleles indicated that all the four patients were homozygous for the mutation in exon _num1 and that the parents of patient _num1 were heterozygous . 
the common mutation at codon _num2 in exon _num1 might be responsible for most japanese c9 deficiency . . 
human complement factor h deficiency associated with hemolytic uremic syndrome . 
this study reports on six cases of deficiency in the human complement regulatory protein factor h -lrb- fh -rrb- in the context of an acute renal disease . 
five of the cases were observed in children presenting with idiopathic hemolytic uremic syndrome -lrb- hus -rrb- . 
two of the children exhibited a homozygous deficiency characterized by the absence of the 150-kd form of factor h and the presence , upon immunoblotting , of the 42-kd factor h-like protein _num1 -lrb- fhl-1 -rrb- and other fh-related protein -lrb- fhr -rrb- bands . 
southern blot and pcr analysis of dna of one patient with homozygous deficiency ruled out the presence of a large deletion of the fh gene as the underlying defect for the deficiency . 
the other four children presented with heterozygous deficiency and exhibited a normal immunoblotting pattern of proteins of the fh family . 
factor h deficiency is the only complement deficiency associated with hus . 
these observations suggest a role for fh and / or fh receptors in the pathogenesis of idiopathic hus . . 
cell cycle-dependent colocalization of bard1 and brca1 proteins in discrete nuclear domains . 
germ-line mutations of the brca1 gene predispose women to early-onset breast and ovarian cancer by compromising the genes presumptive function as a tumor suppressor . 
although the biochemical properties of brca1 polypeptides are not understood , their expression pattern and subcellular localization suggest a role in cell-cycle regulation . 
when resting cells are induced to proliferate , the steady-state levels of brca1 increase in late g1 and reach a maximum during s phase . 
moreover , in s phase cells , brca1 polypeptides are hyperphosphorylated and accumulate into discrete subnuclear foci termed '' brca1 nuclear dots . '' 
brca1 associates in vivo with a structurally related protein termed bard1 . 
here we show that the steady-state levels of bard1 , unlike those of brca1 , remain relatively constant during cell cycle progression . 
however , immunostaining revealed that bard1 resides within brca1 nuclear dots during s phase of the cell cycle , but not during the g1 phase . 
nevertheless , bard1 polypeptides are found exclusively in the nuclear fractions of both g1 - and s-phase cells . 
therefore , progression to s phase is accompanied by the aggregation of nuclear bard1 polypeptides into brca1 nuclear dots . 
this cell cycle-dependent colocalization of bard1 and brca1 indicates a role for bard1 in brca1-mediated tumor suppression . 
genetic basis and molecular mechanism for idiopathic ventricular fibrillation . 
ventricular fibrillation causes more than _num3 , _num3 sudden deaths each year in the usa alone . 
in approximately 5-12 % of these cases , there are no demonstrable cardiac or non-cardiac causes to account for the episode , which is therefore classified as idiopathic ventricular fibrillation -lrb- ivf -rrb- . 
a distinct group of ivf patients has been found to present with a characteristic electrocardiographic pattern . 
because of the small size of most pedigrees and the high incidence of sudden death , however , molecular genetic studies of ivf have not yet been done . 
because ivf causes cardiac rhythm disturbance , we investigated whether malfunction of ion channels could cause the disorder by studying mutations in the cardiac sodium channel gene scn5a . 
we have now identified a missense mutation , a splice-donor mutation , and a frameshift mutation in the coding region of scn5a in three ivf families . 
we show that sodium channels with the missense mutation recover from inactivation more rapidly than normal and that the frameshift mutation causes the sodium channel to be non-functional . 
our results indicate that mutations in cardiac ion-channel genes contribute to the risk of developing ivf . . 
prevalence of the i1307k apc gene variant in israeli jews of differing ethnic origin and risk for colorectal cancer . 
background & aims israeli jews of european birth , i. e. , ashkenazim , have the highest colorectal cancer incidence of any israeli ethnic group . 
the i1307k apc gene variant was found in _num1 . 
_num1 % of american jews , _num2 % of their familial colorectal cancer cases , but not in non-jews . 
we assessed the i1307k prevalence in israeli jews of differing ethnic origin and risk for colorectal cancer . 
methods dna samples from _num3 unrelated jews of european or non-european origin , with or without a personal and / or family history of neoplasia , were examined for the i1307k variant by the allele-specific oligonucleotide -lrb- aso -rrb- method . 
results in persons at average risk for colorectal cancer , i1307k was found in _num1 . 
_num1 % of _num3 european and _num1 . 
_num1 % of _num3 non-european jews -lrb- p = _num1 . 
_num2 -rrb- . 
it occurred in _num2 . 
_num1 % of _num2 ashkenazi israelis with familial cancer -lrb- p = _num1 . 
_num2 -rrb- and was not detected in _num2 non-european jews at increased cancer risk . 
colorectal neoplasia occurred personally or in the families of _num2 of _num2 ashkenazi i1307k carriers , _num1 of whom also had a personal or family history of noncolonic neoplasia . 
conclusions the i1307k apc variant may represent a susceptibility gene for colorectal , or other , cancers in ashkenazi jews , and partially explains the higher incidence of colorectal cancer in european israelis . 
susceptibility to ankylosing spondylitis in twins : the role of genes , hla , and the environment . 
objective to determine the relative effects of genetic and environmental factors in susceptibility to ankylosing spondylitis -lrb- as -rrb- . 
methods twins with as were identified from the royal national hospital for rheumatic diseases database . 
clinical and radiographic examinations were performed to establish diagnoses , and disease severity was assessed using a combination of validated scoring systems . 
hla typing for hla-b27 , hla-b60 , and hla-dr1 was performed by polymerase chain reaction with sequence-specific primers , and zygosity was assessed using microsatellite markers . 
genetic and environmental variance components were assessed with the program mx , using data from this and previous studies of twins with as . 
results six of _num1 monozygotic -lrb- mz -rrb- twin pairs were disease concordant , compared with _num1 of _num2 b27-positive dizygotic -lrb- dz -rrb- twin pairs -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- and _num1 of _num2 dz twin pairs overall -lrb- _num2 . 
_num1 % -rrb- . 
nonsignificant increases in similarity with regard to age at disease onset and all of the disease severity scores assessed were noted in disease-concordant mz twins compared with concordant dz twins . 
hla-b27 and _an were associated with the disease in probands , and the rate of disease concordance was significantly increased among dz twin pairs in which the co-twin was positive for both _an and dr1 . 
additive genetic effects were estimated to contribute _num2 % of the population variance . 
conclusion susceptibility to as is largely genetically determined , and the environmental trigger for the disease is probably ubiquitous . 
hla-b27 accounts for a minority of the overall genetic susceptibility to as . 
the apci1307k allele and cancer risk in a community-based study of ashkenazi jews . 
mutations in apc are classically associated with familial adenomatous polyposis -lrb- fap -rrb- , a highly penetrant autosomal dominant disorder characterized by multiple intestinal polyps and , without surgical intervention , the development of colorectal cancer -lrb- crc -rrb- . 
apc is a tumour-suppressor gene , and somatic loss occurs in tumours . 
the germline t-to-a transversion responsible for the apc i1307k allele converts the wild-type sequence to a homopolymer tract -lrb- a8 -rrb- that is genetically unstable and prone to somatic mutation . 
the i1307k allele was found in _num1 . 
_num1 % of unselected ashkenazi jews and higher proportions of ashkenazim with family or personal histories of crc -lrb- ref . 
_num1 -rrb- . 
to evaluate the role of i1307k in cancer , we genotyped _num1 , _num3 ashkenazi volunteers in a community survey . 
risk of developing colorectal , breast and other cancers were compared between genotyped i1307k carriers and non-carriers and their first-degree relatives . 
the hemochromatosis gene product complexes with the transferrin receptor and lowers its affinity for ligand binding . 
we recently reported the positional cloning of a candidate gene for hereditary hemochromatosis called hfe . 
the gene product , a member of the major histocompatibility complex class i-like family , was found to have a mutation , cys-282 -- > tyr -lrb- c282y -rrb- , in _num2 % of patient chromosomes . 
this mutation eliminates the ability of hfe to associate with beta2-microglobulin -lrb- beta2m -rrb- and prevents cell-surface expression . 
a second mutation that has no effect on beta2m association , h63d , was found in eight out of nine patients heterozygous for the c282y mutant . 
in this report , we demonstrate in cultured _num3 cells overexpressing wild-type or mutant hfe proteins that both the wild-type and h63d hfe proteins form stable complexes with the transferrin receptor -lrb- tfr -rrb- . 
the c282y mutation nearly completely prevents the association of the mutant hfe protein with the tfr . 
studies on cell-associated transferrin at _num2 degrees c suggest that the overexpressed wild-type hfe protein decreases the affinity of the tfr for transferrin . 
the overexpressed h63d protein does not have this effect , providing the first direct evidence for a functional consequence of the h63d mutation . 
addition of soluble wild-type hfe / beta2m heterodimers to cultured cells also decreased the apparent affinity of the tfr for its ligand under steady-state conditions , both in _num3 cells and in hela cells . 
furthermore , at _num1 degrees c , the added soluble complex of hfe / beta2m inhibited binding of transferrin to hela cell tfr in a concentration-dependent manner . 
scatchard plots of these data indicate that the added heterodimer substantially reduced the affinity of tfr for transferrin . 
these results establish a molecular link between hfe and a key protein involved in iron transport , the tfr , and raise the possibility that alterations in this regulatory mechanism may play a role in the pathogenesis of hereditary hemochromatosis . . 
cycloheximide facilitates the identification of aberrant transcripts resulting from a novel splice-site mutation in col17a1 in a patient with generalized atrophic benign epidermolysis bullosa . 
patients with generalized atrophic benign epidermolysis bullosa often show decreased expression of type xvii collagen , a transmembrane hemidesmosomal protein encoded by col17a1 . 
this report documents a novel splice-site mutation in col17a1 in a patient with generalized atrophic benign epidermolysis bullosa , and applies a new methodology to define and characterize the resulting mrna splice variants . 
mutational analysis of col17a1 identified a maternally inherited g-to-t transversion at the -1 position of exon _num2 . 
this acceptor splice-site mutation led to the formation of aberrant transcripts present at extremely low levels . 
based on our recent finding that cycloheximide stabilized mutant col17a1 transcripts in keratinocytes homozygous for a frameshift mutation , the effects of the splice-site mutation on splicing of col17a1 transcripts were determined using reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction of total rna from keratinocytes incubated for _num1 . 
_num1 h in the presence or absence of _num2 microg cycloheximide per ml . 
using this approach , an abnormally spliced transcript was identified that contains an extra _num3 bases upstream from exon _num2 , resulting in a premature termination codon _num2 bp downstream from the cryptic splice site . 
three other splice variants , including one derived from the skipping of exon _num2 , were also identified . 
these results indicate the usefulness of cycloheximide treatment in evaluating the abnormal processing of mrna due to splice-site mutations , because -lrb- i -rrb- aberrant splicing often generates a premature termination codon , -lrb- ii -rrb- transcripts with premature termination codons can occur at low or undetectable levels due to nonsense-mediated mrna decay , and -lrb- iii -rrb- the levels of these transcripts can be increased by cycloheximide . 
the dmpk gene of severely affected myotonic dystrophy patients is hypermethylated proximal to the largely expanded _ds repeat . 
using methylation-sensitive restriction enzymes , we characterized the methylation pattern on the _num1 side of the _ds repeat in the dmpk gene of normal individuals and of patients affected with myotonic dystrophy , showing expansions of the repetitive sequence . 
the gene segment analyzed corresponds to the genomic saci-hindiii fragment carrying exons 11-15 . 
there is constitutive methylation in intron _num2 at restriction sites of sacii and hhai , localized _num1 , 159-1 , _num3 bp upstream of the _ds repeat , whereas most , if not all , of the other sites of sacii , hhai , and hpaii in this region are unmethylated , in normal individuals and most of the patients . 
in a number of young and severely affected patients , however , complete methylation of these restriction sites was found in the mutated allele . 
in most of these patients , the onset of the disease was congenital . 
preliminary in vivo footprinting data gave evidence for protein-dna contact in normal genes at an sp1 consensus binding site upstream of the _ds repeat and for a significant reduction of this interaction in cells with a hypermethylated dmpk gene . . 
progression of somatic _ds repeat length heterogeneity in the blood cells of myotonic dystrophy patients . 
the genetic basis of myotonic dystrophy -lrb- dm -rrb- is the expansion of an unstable _ds repeat in the _num2 utr of the dm protein kinase gene on chromosome _num2 . 
one of the principal features of the dm mutation is an extraordinarily high level of somatic mosaicism , due to an extremely high degree of somatic instability both within and between different tissues . 
this instability appears to be biased towards further expansion and continuous throughout the life of an individual , features that could be associated with the progressive nature of the disease . 
although increasing measured allele size between patients clearly correlates with an increased severity of symptoms and an earlier age of onset , this correlation is not precise and measured allele length can not be used as an accurate predictor of age of onset . 
in order to further characterize the dynamics of dm _ds repeat somatic instability , we have studied repeat length changes over time in _num3 myotonic dystrophy patients with varying clinical severity and _ds repeat size over time intervals of 1-7 years . 
we have found a direct progression of the size heterogeneity over time related to initial _ds repeat size and the time interval and always biased towards further expansion . 
attempts to mathematically model the dynamics have proved only partially successful suggesting that individual specific genetic and / or environmental factors also play a role in somatic mosaicism . . 
inherited colorectal polyposis and cancer risk of the apc i1307k polymorphism . 
germ-line and somatic truncating mutations of the apc gene are thought to initiate colorectal tumor formation in familial adenomatous polyposis syndrome and sporadic colorectal carcinogenesis , respectively . 
recently , an isoleucine -- > lysine polymorphism at codon _num4 -lrb- i1307k -rrb- of the apc gene has been identified in _num1 % -7 % of the ashkenazi jewish population . 
to assess the risk of this common apc allelic variant in colorectal carcinogenesis , we have analyzed a large cohort of unselected ashkenazi jewish subjects with adenomatous polyps and . 
or colorectal cancer , for the apc i1307k polymorphism . 
the apc i1307k allele was identified in _num2 -lrb- _num2 . 
_num1 % -rrb- of _num3 patients . 
compared with the frequency in two separate population control groups , the apc i1307k allele is associated with an estimated relative risk of _num1 . 
5-1 . 
_num1 for colorectal neoplasia -lrb- both p = . 
_num2 -rrb- . 
furthermore , compared with noncarriers , apc i1307k carriers had increased numbers of adenomas and colorectal cancers per patient -lrb- p = . 
_num2 -rrb- , as well as a younger age at diagnosis . 
we conclude that the apc i1307k variant leads to increased adenoma formation and directly contributes to _num1 % -4 % of all ashkenazi jewish colorectal cancer . 
the estimated relative risk for carriers may justify specific clinical screening for the _num3 , _num3 americans expected to harbor this allele , and genetic testing in the setting of long-term-outcome studies may impact significantly on colorectal cancer prevention in this population . 
human mlh1 deficiency predisposes to hematological malignancy and neurofibromatosis type _num1 . 
heterozygous germ-line mutations in the dna mismatch repair genes lead to hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer . 
the disease susceptibility of individuals who constitutionally lack both wild-type alleles is unknown . 
we have identified three offspring in a hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer family who developed hematological malignancy at a very early age , and at least two of them displayed signs of neurofibromatosis type _num1 -lrb- nf1 -rrb- . 
dna sequence analysis and allele-specific amplification in two siblings revealed a homozygous mlh1 mutation -lrb- c676t -- > arg226stop -rrb- . 
thus , a homozygous germ-line mlh1 mutation and consequent mismatch repair deficiency results in a mutator phenotype characterized by leukemia and / or lymphoma associated with neurofibromatosis type _num1 . . 
are dp71 and dp140 brain dystrophin isoforms related to cognitive impairment in duchenne muscular dystrophy ? 
molecular study and neuropsychological analysis were performed concurrently on _num2 patients with duchenne muscular dystrophy -lrb- dmd -rrb- in order to find a molecular explanation for the cognitive impairment observed in most dmd patients . 
complete analysis of the dystrophin gene was performed to define the localization of deletions and duplications in relation to the different dmd promoters . 
qualitative analysis of the dp71 transcript and testing for the specific first exon of dp140 were also carried out . 
neuropsychological analysis assessed verbal and visuospatial intelligence , verbal memory , and reading skills . 
comparison of molecular and psychometric findings demonstrated that deletions and duplications that were localized in the distal part of the gene seemed to be preferentially associated with cognitive impairment . 
two altered dp71 transcripts and two deleted dp140 dna sequences were found in four patients with severe cerebral dysfunction . 
these findings suggest that some sequences located in the distal part of the gene and , in particular , some dmd isoforms expressed in the brain may be related to the cognitive impairment associated with dmd . . 
a genome-wide search for chromosomal loci linked to mental health wellness in relatives at high risk for bipolar affective disorder among the old order amish . 
bipolar affective disorder -lrb- bpad ; manic-depressive illness -rrb- is characterized by episodes of mania and / or hypomania interspersed with periods of depression . 
compelling evidence supports a significant genetic component in the susceptibility to develop bpad . 
to date , however , linkage studies have attempted only to identify chromosomal loci that cause or increase the risk of developing bpad . 
to determine whether there could be protective alleles that prevent or reduce the risk of developing bpad , similar to what is observed in other genetic disorders , we used mental health wellness -lrb- absence of any psychiatric disorder -rrb- as the phenotype in our genome-wide linkage scan of several large multigeneration old order amish pedigrees exhibiting an extremely high incidence of bpad . 
we have found strong evidence for a locus on chromosome 4p at d4s2949 -lrb- maximum genehunter-plus nonparametric linkage score = _num1 . 
_num2 , p = _num1 . 
_num2 x _num2 -lrb- -4 -rrb- ; sibpal pempirical value < _num1 x _num2 -lrb- -5 -rrb- -rrb- and suggestive evidence for a locus on chromosome 4q at d4s397 -lrb- maximum genehunter-plus nonparametric linkage score = _num1 . 
_num2 , p = _num1 . 
_num2 x _num2 -lrb- -3 -rrb- ; sibpal pempirical value < _num1 x _num2 -lrb- -3 -rrb- -rrb- that are linked to mental health wellness . 
these findings are consistent with the hypothesis that certain alleles could prevent or modify the clinical manifestations of bpad and perhaps other related affective disorders . 
hereditary deficiency of the fifth component of complement in man . 
i. clinical , immunochemical , and family studies . 
the first recognized human kindred with hereditary deficiency of the fifth component of complement -lrb- c5 -rrb- is described . 
the proband , a 20-year-old black female with systemic lupus erythematosus since age _num2 , lacked serum hemolytic complement activity , even during remission . 
c5 was undetectable in her serum by both immunodiffusion and hemolytic assays . 
other complement components were normal during remission of lupus , but c1 , c4 , c2 , and c3 levels fell during exacerbations . 
a younger half-sister , who had no underlying disease , was also found to lack immunochemically detectable c5 . 
by hemolytic assay , she exhibited 1-2 % of the normal serum c5 level and normal concentrations of other complement components . 
c5 levels of other family members were either normal or approximately half-normal , consistent with autosomal codominant inheritance of the gene determining c5 deficiency . 
normal hemolytic titers were restored to both homozygous c5-deficient -lrb- c5d -rrb- sera by addition of highly purified human c5 . 
in specific c5 titrations , however , it was noted that when limited amounts of c5 were assayed in the presence of low dilutions of either c5d serum , curving rather than linear dose-response plots were consistently obtained , suggesting some inhibitory effect . 
further studies suggested that low dilutions of c5d serum contain a factor -lrb- or factors -rrb- interfering at some step in the hemolytic assay of c5 , rather than a true c5 inhibitor or inactivator . 
of clinical interest are -lrb- a -rrb- the documentation of membranous glomerulonephritis , vasculitis , and arthritis in an individual lacking c5 -lrb- and its biologic functions -rrb- , and -lrb- b -rrb- a remarkable propensity to bacterial infections in the proband , even during periods of low-dose or alternate-day corticosteroid therapy . 
other observations indicate that the c5d state is compatible with normal coagulation function and the capacity to mount a neutrophilic leukocytosis during pyogenic infection . . 
detection of heterozygous carriers of the ataxia-telangiectasia -lrb- atm -rrb- gene by g2 phase chromosomal radiosensitivity of peripheral blood lymphocytes . 
in ataxia-telangiectasia -lrb- a-t -rrb- patients , mutations in a single gene , atm , result in an autosomal recessive syndrome that embraces a variety of clinical features and manifests extreme radiosensitivity and a strong pre-disposition to malignancy . 
heterozygotes for the atm gene have no clinical expression of a-t but may be cancer prone with a moderate increase in in vitro radiosensitivity . 
we performed a blind chromosomal analysis on g2-phase lymphocytes from _num1 unrelated a-t patients , _num2 obligate a-t heterozygotes -lrb- parents of the patients -rrb- , and _num2 normal controls following x-irradiation with _num1 gy in order to evaluate this cytogenetic method as a tool for detection of atm carriers . 
both a-t homozygotes and heterozygotes showed significantly increased levels of radiation-induced chromatid damage relative to that of normal controls . 
these results show that the g2-phase chromosomal radiosensitivity assay can be used for the detection of a-t heterozygotes . 
in combination with molecular genetic analyses , this test may be of value in studies of familial and sporadic cancers aimed at determination of the potential involvement of atm mutations in tumor risk or development . . 
the molecular basis of c6 deficiency in the western cape , south africa . 
deficiency of the sixth component of human complement -lrb- c6 -rrb- has been reported in a number of families from the western cape , south africa . 
meningococcal disease is endemic in the cape and almost all pedigrees of total c6 deficiency -lrb- c6q0 -rrb- have been ascertained because of recurrent disease . 
we have sequenced the expressed exons of the c6 gene from selected cases and have found three molecular defects leading to total deficiency 879delg , which is the common defect in the cape and hitherto unreported , and 1195delc and 1936delg , which have been previously reported in african-americans . 
we also show that the 879delg and 1195delc defects are associated with characteristic c6 / c7 region dna marker haplotypes , although small variations were observed . 
the 1936delg defect was observed only once in the cape , but its associated haplotype could be deduced . 
the data from the haplotypes indicate that these three molecular defects account for the defects in all the _num2 unrelated c6q0 individuals we have studied from the cape . 
we have also observed the 879delg defect in two dutch c6-deficient kindreds , but the 879delg defect in the cape probably did not come from the netherlands . . 
the r496h mutation of arylsulfatase a does not cause metachromatic leukodystrophy . 
deficiency of arylsulfatase a -lrb- arsa -rrb- enzyme activity causes metachromatic leukodystrophy -lrb- mld -rrb- . 
a number of arsa gene mutations responsible for mld have been identified . 
recently , the r496h mutation of arsa was proposed to be a cause of mld -lrb- draghia et al. , _num4 -rrb- . 
we have investigated the r496h mutation and found this mutation at a relatively high frequency in an african american population -lrb- f = _num1 . 
_num2 , n = _num2 subjects -rrb- . 
the arsa enzyme activity in subjects with and without the r496h mutation was determined and found to be normal . 
it is therefore concluded that the r496h mutation of arsa does not negatively influence the activity of arsa and is not a cause of mld piebaldism with deafness : molecular evidence for an expanded syndrome . 
in a south african girl of xhosa stock with severe piebaldism and profound congenital sensorineural deafness we identified a novel missense substitution at a highly conserved residue in the intracellular kinase domain of the kit proto-oncogene , r796g . 
though auditory anomalies have been observed in mice with dominant white spotting -lrb- w -rrb- due to kit mutations , deafness is not typical in human piebaldism . 
thus , the occurrence of sensorineural deafness in this patient extends considerably the phenotypic range of piebaldism due to kit gene mutation in humans and tightens the clinical similarity between piebaldism and the various forms of waardenburg syndrome . . 
genetic heterogeneity and penetrance analysis of the brca1 and brca2 genes in breast cancer families . 
the breast cancer linkage consortium . 
the contribution of brca1 and brca2 to inherited breast cancer was assessed by linkage and mutation analysis in _num3 families , each with at least four cases of breast cancer , collected by the breast cancer linkage consortium . 
families were included without regard to the occurrence of ovarian or other cancers . 
overall , disease was linked to brca1 in an estimated _num2 % of families , to brca2 in _num2 % of families , and to neither gene in _num2 % -lrb- _num2 % confidence interval -lsb- ci -rsb- _num1 % -28 % -rrb- , suggesting other predisposition genes . 
the majority -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- of the breast-ovarian cancer families were due to brca1 , with most others -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- due to brca2 . 
conversely , the majority of families with male and female breast cancer were due to brca2 -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- . 
the largest proportion -lrb- _num2 % -rrb- of families due to other genes was found in families with four or five cases of female breast cancer only . 
these estimates were not substantially affected either by changing the assumed penetrance model for brca1 or by including or excluding brca1 mutation data . 
among those families with disease due to brca1 that were tested by one of the standard screening methods , mutations were detected in the coding sequence or splice sites in an estimated _num2 % -lrb- _num2 % ci _num2 % -77 % -rrb- . 
the estimated sensitivity was identical for direct sequencing and other techniques . 
the penetrance of brca2 was estimated by maximizing the lod score in brca2-mutation families , over all possible penetrance functions . 
the estimated cumulative risk of breast cancer reached _num2 % -lrb- _num2 % ci _num1 % -44 % -rrb- by age _num2 years and _num2 % -lrb- _num2 % ci _num2 % -95 % -rrb- by age _num2 years . 
the corresponding ovarian cancer risks were _num1 . 
_num1 % -lrb- _num2 % ci _num1 % -1 % -rrb- by age _num2 years and _num2 % -lrb- _num2 % ci _num1 % -47 % -rrb- by age _num2 years . 
the lifetime risk of breast cancer appears similar to the risk in brca1 carriers , but there was some suggestion of a lower risk in brca2 carriers < _num2 years of age . 
severe early-onset obesity , adrenal insufficiency and red hair pigmentation caused by pomc mutations in humans . 
sequential cleavage of the precursor protein pre-pro-opiomelanocortin -lrb- pomc -rrb- generates the melanocortin peptides adrenocorticotrophin -lrb- acth -rrb- , melanocyte-stimulating hormones -lrb- msh -rrb- alpha , beta and gamma as well as the opioid-receptor ligand beta-endorphin . 
while a few cases of isolated acth deficiency have been reported -lrb- omim _num6 -rrb- , an inherited pomc defect has not been described so far . 
recent studies in animal models elucidated a central role of alpha-msh in the regulation of food intake by activation of the brain melanocortin-4-receptor -lrb- mc4-r ; refs 3-5 -rrb- and the linkage of human obesity to chromosome _num1 in close proximity to the pomc locus , led to the proposal of an association of pomc with human obesity . 
the dual role of alpha-msh in regulating food intake and influencing hair pigmentation predicts that the phenotype associated with a defect in pomc function would include obesity , alteration in pigmentation and acth deficiency . 
the observation of these symptoms in two probands prompted us to search for mutations within their pomc genes . 
patient _num1 was found to be a compound heterozygote for two mutations in exon _num1 -lrb- g7013t , c7133delta -rrb- which interfere with appropriate synthesis of acth and alpha-msh . 
patient _num1 was homozygous for a mutation in exon _num1 -lrb- c3804a -rrb- which abolishes pomc translation . 
these findings represent the first examples of a genetic defect within the pomc gene and define a new monogenic endocrine disorder resulting in early-onset obesity , adrenal insufficiency and red hair pigmentation . . 
the tumor suppressor gene smad4 / dpc4 is required for gastrulation and later for anterior development of the mouse embryo . 
mutations in the smad4 / dpc4 tumor suppressor gene , a key signal transducer in most tgfbeta-related pathways , are involved in _num2 % of pancreatic cancers . 
homozygous smad4 mutant mice die before day _num1 . 
_num1 of embryogenesis . 
mutant embryos have reduced size , fail to gastrulate or express a mesodermal marker , and show abnormal visceral endoderm development . 
growth retardation of the smad4-deficient embryos results from reduced cell proliferation rather than increased apoptosis . 
aggregation of mutant smad4 es cells with wild-type tetraploid morulae rescues the gastrulation defect . 
these results indicate that smad4 is initially required for the differentiation of the visceral endoderm and that the gastrulation defect in the epiblast is secondary and non-cell autonomous . 
rescued embryos show severe anterior truncations , indicating a second important role for smad4 in anterior patterning during embryogenesis . 
coincidence of two novel arylsulfatase a alleles and mutation _num3 +1 g > a within a family with metachromatic leukodystrophy : molecular basis of phenotypic heterogeneity . 
in a family with three siblings , one developed classical late infantile metachromatic leukodystrophy -lrb- mld -rrb- , fatal at age _num1 years , with deficient arylsulfatase a -lrb- arsa -rrb- activity and increased galactosylsulfatide -lrb- gs -rrb- excretion . 
the two other siblings , apparently healthy at _num2 -lrb- 1 / 2 -rrb- and _num2 years , respectively , and their father , apparently healthy as well , presented arsa and gs values within the range of mld patients . 
mutation screening and sequence analysis disclosed the involvement of three different arsa mutations being the molecular basis of intrafamilial phenotypic heterogeneity . 
the late infantile patient inherited from his mother the frequent 0-type mutation _num3 + 1g > a , and from his father a novel , single basepair microdeletion of guanine at nucleotide _num1 in exon _num1 -lrb- 7delg -rrb- . 
the two clinically unaffected siblings carried the maternal mutation _num3 + 1g > a and , on their paternal allele , a novel cytosine to thymidine transition at nucleotide _num4 in exon _num1 , resulting in substitution of alanine _num3 by valine -lrb- a464v -rrb- . 
the fathers genotype thus was 7delg / a464v . 
mutation a464v was not found in _num2 unrelated mld patients and _num2 controls . 
a464v , although clearly modifying arsa and gs levels , apparently bears little significance for clinical manifestation of mld , mimicking the frequent arsa pseudodeficiency allele . 
our results demonstrate that in certain genetic conditions mld like arsa and gs values need not be paralleled by clinical disease , a finding with serious diagnostic and prognostic implications . 
moreover , further arsa alleles functionally similar to a464v might exist which , together with 0-type mutations , may cause pathological arsa and gs levels , but not clinical outbreak of the disease . . 
low levels of beta hexosaminidase a in healthy individuals with apparent deficiency of this enzyme . 
appreciable beta hexosaminidase a -lrb- hex a -rrb- activity has been detected in cultured skin fibroblasts and melanoma tissue from healthy individuals previously reported as having deficiency of hex a activity indistinguishable from that of patients with tay-sachs disease -lrb- tsd -rrb- . 
identification and quantitation of hex a , amounting to _num1 . 
_num1 % -6 . 
_num1 % of total beta hexosaminidase activity , has been obtained by cellulose acetate gel electrophoresis , deae-cellulose ion-exchange chromatography , radial immunodiffusion , and radioimmunoassay . 
previous family studies suggested that these individuals may be compound heterozygotes for the common mutant tsd gene and a rare -lrb- allelic -rrb- mutant gene . 
thus , the postulated rate mutant gene appears to code for the expression of low amounts of hex a. heterozygotes for the rare mutant may be indistinguishable from heterozygotes for the common tsd mutant . 
however , direct visualization and quantitation of hex a by the methods described may prevent false-positive prenatal diagnosis of tsd in fetuses having the incomplete hex a deficiency of the type described in the four healthy individuals a mouse model for prader-willi syndrome imprinting-centre mutations . 
imprinting in the 15q11-q13 region involves an imprinting centre -lrb- ic -rrb- , mapping in part to the promoter and first exon of snrpn . 
deletion of this ic abolishes local paternally derived gene expression and results in prader-willi syndrome -lrb- pws -rrb- . 
we have created two deletion mutations in mice to understand pws and the mechanism of this ic . 
mice harbouring an intragenic deletion in snrpn are phenotypically normal , suggesting that mutations of snrpn are not sufficient to induce pws . 
mice with a larger deletion involving both snrpn and the putative pws-ic lack expression of the imprinted genes zfp127 -lrb- mouse homologue of znf127 -rrb- , ndn and ipw , and manifest several phenotypes common to pws infants . 
these data demonstrate that both the position of the ic and its role in the coordinate expression of genes is conserved between mouse and human , and indicate that the mouse is a suitable model system in which to investigate the molecular mechanisms of imprinting in this region of the genome . . 
a deletion mutation in col17a1 in five austrian families with generalized atrophic benign epidermolysis bullosa represents propagation of an ancestral allele . 
patients with generalized atrophic benign epidermolysis bullosa , a usually nonlethal form of junctional epidermolysis bullosa , have generalized blistering , nail dystrophy , patchy alopecia , and dental abnormalities . 
skin fragility in most cases is due to mutations in the gene encoding type xvii collagen -lrb- col17a1 -rrb- . 
recently , we reported five austrian families with generalized atrophic benign epidermolysis bullosa who share the same col17a1 mutation . 
affected individuals in three families are homozygous for 4003deltc , whereas those in two others are compound heterozygotes . 
to determine if the occurrence of 4003deltc in these unrelated families signifies propagation of an ancestral allele or a mutational hot spot , haplotypes were determined for polymorphisms both within and flanking col17a1 . 
five intragenic polymorphisms were chosen based on their informativeness . 
one of these , not previously reported , was _num4 a or c that introduces a new restriction site for eco0109 i. all the 4003deltc alleles showed the same haplotype for these five polymorphic markers . 
fourteen microsatellite polymorphisms were selected based on their high heterozygosity and their location within 10q23-q25 near col17a1 . 
three families shared microsatellite polymorphisms covering at most _num2 cm , whereas the others shared smaller regions consistent with cross-over events during passage of this mutation through several generations . 
these results indicate that 4003deltc occurs on a single ancestral allele . . 
identification of a novel mutation of the cpo gene in a japanese hereditary coproporphyria family . 
hereditary coproporphyria -lrb- hcp -rrb- is an autosomal dominant disease characterized by a deficiency of coproporphyrinogen oxidase -lrb- cpo -rrb- caused by a mutation in the cpo gene . 
only _num2 mutations of the gene have been reported in hcp patients . 
we report another mutation in a japanese family . 
polymerase chain reaction-single strand conformational polymorphism and direct sequence analyses demonstrated a c to t substitution in exon _num1 of the cpo gene at nucleotide position _num2 , which lies in the putative presequence for targeting to mitochondria . 
this mutation changes the codon for glutamine to a termination codon at amino acid position _num2 . 
maei restriction analysis showed two other carriers in the family . 
the c-t mutation is located within a recently proposed putative alternative translation initiation codon -lrb- tic-1 -rrb- , supporting that tic-1 is the real tic rather than tic-2 . . 
the chromosomal order of genes controlling the major histocompatibility complex , properdin factor b , and deficiency of the second component of complement . 
the relationship of the genes coding for hla to those coding for properdin factor b allotypes and for deficiency of the second component of complement -lrb- c2 -rrb- was studied in families of patients with connective tissue disorders . 
patients were selected because they were heterozygous or homozygous for c2 deficiency . 
_num2 families with _num2 matings informative for c2 deficiency were found . 
of _num2 informative meioses , two crossovers were noted between the c2 deficiency gene and the hla-b gene , with a recombinant fraction of _num1 . 
_num3 . 
a lod score of _num2 was calculated for linkage between c2 deficiency and hla-b at a maximum likelihood value of the recombinant fraction of _num1 . 
_num2 . 
_num2 families with _num2 informative matings for both properdin factor b allotype and hla-b were found . 
of _num2 informative meioses , three recombinants were found , giving a recombinant fraction of _num1 . 
_num3 . 
a lod score of _num2 between hla-b and factor b allotypes was calculated at a maximum likelihood value of the recombinant fraction of _num1 . 
_num2 . 
a crossover was shown to have occurred between genes for factor b and hla-d , in which hla-d segregared with hla-a and b . 
these studies suggest that the genes for factor b and c2 deficiency are located outside those for hla , that the order of genese is hla-a , - b , - d , factor b allotype , c2 deficiency , that the genes coding for c2 deficiency and factor b allotypes are approximately _num1 -- _num1 centimorgans from the hla-a and hla-b loci , and that the apparent lack of recombinants between the factor b gene and c2 deficiency gene suggests that these two genes lie in close proximity to one another . 
a novel missense mutation in patients from a retinoblastoma pedigree showing only mild expression of the tumor phenotype . 
we have used single strand conformation polymorphism analysis to study the _num2 exons of the rb1 gene in individuals from a family showing mild expression of the retinoblastoma phenotype . 
in this family affected individuals developed unilateral tumors and , as a result of linkage analysis , unaffected mutation carriers were also identified within the pedigree . 
a single band shift using sscp was identified in exon _num2 which resulted in a missense mutation converting a cys -- > arg at nucleotide position _num2 in the exon . 
the mutation destroyed an ndei restriction enzyme site . 
analysis of all family members demonstrated that the missense mutation co-segregated with patients with tumors or who , as a result of linkage analysis had been predicted to carry the predisposing mutation . 
these observations point to another region of the rb1 gene where mutations only modify the function of the gene and raise important questions for genetic counseling in families with these distinctive phenotypes . . 
complement c7 deficiency : seven further molecular defects and their associated marker haplotypes . 
seven further molecular bases of c7 deficiency are described . 
all these new molecular defects involve single-nucleotide events , deletions and substitutions , some of which alter splice sites , and others codons . 
they are distributed along the c7 gene , but predominantly towards the _num1 end . 
all were found in compound heterozygous individuals . 
the c6 / c7 marker haplotypes associated with most c7 defects are tabulated . . 
identification of constitutional wt1 mutations , in patients with isolated diffuse mesangial sclerosis , and analysis of genotype / phenotype correlations by use of a computerized mutation database . 
constitutional mutations of the wt1 gene , encoding a zinc-finger transcription factor involved in renal and gonadal development , are found in most patients with denys-drash syndrome -lrb- dds -rrb- , or diffuse mesangial sclerosis -lrb- dms -rrb- associated with pseudohermaphroditism and / or wilms tumor -lrb- wt -rrb- . 
most mutations in dds patients lie in exon _num1 or exon _num1 , encoding zinc finger _num1 or zinc finger _num1 , respectively , with a hot spot -lrb- r394w -rrb- in exon _num1 . 
we analyzed a series of _num2 patients , _num2 with isolated dms -lrb- idms -rrb- , _num2 with dds , and _num1 with urogenital abnormalities and / or wt . 
we report wt1 heterozygous mutations in _num2 patients , _num1 of whom presented with idms . 
one male and two female idms patients with wt1 mutations underwent normal puberty . 
two mutations associated with idms are different from those described in dds patients . 
no wt1 mutations were detected in the six other idms patients , suggesting genetic heterogeneity of this disease . 
we analyzed genotype / phenotype correlations , on the basis of the constitution of a wt1 mutation database of _num2 germ-line mutations , to compare the distribution and type of mutations , according to the different symptoms . 
this demonstrated -lrb- _num1 -rrb- the association between mutations in exons _num1 and _num1 and dms ; -lrb- _num1 -rrb- among patients with dms , a higher frequency of exon _num1 mutations among _num2 , xy patients with female phenotype than among _num2 , xy patients with sexual ambiguity or male phenotype ; and -lrb- _num1 -rrb- statistically significant evidence that mutations in exons _num1 and _num1 preferentially affect amino acids with different functions . . 
paternal transmission of congenital myotonic dystrophy . 
we report a rare case of paternally transmitted congenital myotonic dystrophy -lrb- dm -rrb- . 
the proband is a _num2 year old , mentally retarded male who suffers severe muscular weakness . 
he presented with respiratory and feeding difficulties at birth . 
his two sibs suffer from childhood onset dm . 
their late father had the adult type of dm , with onset around _num2 years . 
only six other cases of paternal transmission of congenital dm have been reported recently . 
we review the sex related effects on transmission of congenital dm . 
decreased fertility of males with adult onset dm and contraction of the repeat upon male transmission contribute to the almost absent occurrence of paternal transmission of congenital dm . 
also the fathers of the reported congenitally affected children showed , on average , shorter _ds repeat lengths and hence less severe clinical symptoms than the mothers of children with congenital dm . 
we conclude that paternal transmission of congenital dm is rare and preferentially occurs with onset of dm past _num2 years in the father . . 
genomic organization of the ube3a / e6-ap gene and related pseudogenes . 
the ube3a gene encodes the e6-ap ubiquitin-protein ligase and has recently been shown to be mutated in angelman syndrome patients who lack 15q11-q13 deletions or chromosome _num2 paternal uniparental disomy . 
previous ube3a cdna analysis has shown a coding region of approximately _num1 . 
_num1 kb and a 3-untranslated region -lrb- utr -rrb- of < _num2 bp , whereas northern analysis has indicated mrna sizes of 5-8 kb . 
we have analyzed additional cdna clones and provide evidence for an additional _num1 . 
_num1 kb of 5-utr and > _num1 kb of 3-utr . 
we have established the genomic organization of ube3a and the sequence of intron-exon borders . 
we have also mapped two highly homologous processed pseudogenes , ube3ap1 and ube3ap2 , to chromosomes _num1 and _num2 , respectively , and determined their genomic organization . 
these results will form the basis for studies of mutation and imprinting of ube3a . 
distribution of emerin and lamins in the heart and implications for emery-dreifuss muscular dystrophy . 
emerin is a nuclear membrane protein which is missing or defective in emery-dreifuss muscular dystrophy -lrb- edmd -rrb- . 
it is one member of a family of lamina-associated proteins which includes lap1 , lap2 and lamin b receptor -lrb- lbr -rrb- . 
a panel of _num2 monoclonal antibodies -lrb- mabs -rrb- has been mapped to six specific sites throughout the emerin molecule using phage-displayed peptide libraries and has been used to localize emerin in human and rabbit heart . 
several mabs against different emerin epitopes did not recognize intercalated discs in the heart , though they recognized cardiomyocyte nuclei strongly , both at the rim and in intranuclear spots or channels . 
a polyclonal rabbit antiserum against emerin did recognize both nuclear membrane and intercalated discs but , after affinity purification against a pure-emerin band on a western blot , it stained only the nuclear membrane . 
these results would not be expected if immunostaining at intercalated discs were due to a product of the emerin gene and , therefore , cast some doubt upon the hypothesis that cardiac defects in edmd are caused by absence of emerin from intercalated discs . 
although emerin was abundant in the membranes of cardiomyocyte nuclei , it was absent from many non-myocyte cells in the heart . 
this distribution of emerin was similar to that of lamin a , a candidate gene for an autosomal form of edmd . 
in contrast , lamin b1 was absent from cardiomyocyte nuclei , showing that lamin b1 is not essential for localization of emerin to the nuclear lamina . 
lamin b1 is also almost completely absent from skeletal muscle nuclei . 
in edmd , the additional absence of lamin b1 from heart and skeletal muscle nuclei which already lack emerin may offer an alternative explanation of why these tissues are particularly affected . . 
localization of human brca1 and its loss in high-grade , non-inherited breast carcinomas . 
although the link between the brca1 tumour suppressor gene and hereditary breast and ovarian cancer is established , the role , if any , of brca1 in non-familial cancers is unclear . 
brca1 mutations are rare in sporadic cancers , but loss of brca1 resulting from reduced expression or incorrect subcellular localization is postulated to be important in non-familial breast and ovarian cancers . 
epigenetic loss , however , has not received general acceptance due to controversy regarding the subcellular localization of brca1 proteins , reports of which have ranged from exclusively nuclear , to conditionally nuclear , to the er / golgi , to cytoplasmic invaginations into the nucleus . 
in an attempt to resolve this issue , we have comprehensively characterized _num2 anti-brca1 antibodies . 
these reagents detect a 220-kd protein localized in discrete nuclear foci in all epithelial cell lines , including those derived from breast malignancies . 
immunohistochemical staining of human breast specimens also revealed brca1 nuclear foci in benign breast , invasive lobular cancers and low-grade ductal carcinomas . 
conversely , brca1 expression was reduced or undetectable in the majority of high-grade , ductal carcinomas , suggesting that absence of brca1 may contribute to the pathogenesis of a significant percentage of sporadic breast cancers . . 
